Phil, It has been staring you in the face all this time, but I can understand why you didn’t see it, that girl could forge anything.
I finally understood what had happened when I cracked the enclosed report from the Nazi archives. The Mona Lisa has had a pretty adventurous time over the last forty years. The Nazis discovered that Peruggia was an associate of the Ghetto family and that after he had taken the painting to Italy it had been in their custody for at least some part of the two years it was missing. Read the report yourself and you will see that they came to the conclusion that the Ghettos held on to her because they couldn’t make a convincing forgery. I don’t buy that and I don’t believe that they would have let Peruggia offer it to anyone else once they had hold of it themselves. The Nazis have fallen for the same trick that fooled everyone else; the pretence that the painting Peruggia showed to Geri was the original. It was a fake, possibly the best fake in art history.
I don’t know whether Peruggia was in on the deception or not. Given their skills, the Ghetto family can’t have been short of money or influence and he was not inside for long. Either way the fake was restored to France and the original was hidden away.
When Falschung ordered Sara to copy the Paris Mona Lisa he believed, along with the rest of the world, that it was the original. Sara must have known the true story and produced a new, and almost perfect, fake for him, but used an old scrap of lead pipe from the cellar to mark the board with the Nazi emblem, knowing that at some point the forgery would be discovered. She must have hoped that the Nazis would be blamed for the theft of the Mona Lisa, providing the perfect cover for her own family’s original crime.
That left one mystery. Where was the painting she replaced? She couldn't have travelled south with the Peruggia forgery since it was painted on a board - not something she could easily conceal - so she must have left the painting behind, but, according to the report, the house in Montmartre was thoroughly searched by experts.
Then I saw it! Her tools and works in the Venice apartment were hidden behind the panels. I remembered Sara’s remark from her diary: “I was nearly caught last night. He came to check on me and I just had time to turn the canvas against the wall in the shadows.” The Mona Lisa wasn’t painted on canvas so what else would she have been painting? I took a look down there this afternoon. It is very dark in the back corner of that cellar, with no natural light and a thick coating of dirt and dust on the walls which seems to absorb any illumination leaving it hard to make out details even with a good torch. If you didn’t know it was there you would never find it. Behind a camouflaged flap pinned to the wall I found the Peruggia copy. The disguise was a work of art, the canvas thickly coated with brick dust and dirt mixed with binders she must have smuggled down from the attic studio. It was fastened to the wall with soft lead wedges jammed into the cracks in the mortar. Easy to remove but easily covered with more of the dirt. I can see why no-one spotted it before.
The Peruggia copy was another masterpiece, but it begs the question of where the original might be. I am not sure we will ever find it and I am certain the French will not like it if we tell them that. I would suggest that we keep it to ourselves.Since the Peruggia copy was designed to stay undetected, unlike the Eagle emblem version, maybe we should switch them and forget about it. We can burn the Nazi version and maybe no-one will ever know that the painting in the Louvre is just a copy. Somewhere out there Sara and her family are guarding the original, and if I ever get the chance I plan to go hunting for it, maybe you would join me?

Harry
