Herr Goering,

It is with shame that I must confess that the girl Sara and the other members of her family have vanished, and despite our best efforts at persuasion, the Ghetto is silent on their disappearance. Our enquiries showed that Sara’s grandfather was a confederate and possible co-conspirator of Vincenzo Peruggia, the thief who stole the Mona Lisa from Paris in Nineteen Eleven. We believe that the grandfather held the painting for Peruggia until some time in Nineteen Thirteen, when it was finally discovered in Peruggia’s apartment in Florence. Peruggia tried to hand it over to the dealer Geri in exchange for a reward. There appears to have been no relationship between Geri and the Ghetto family and we believe that Peruggia might have stolen the painting back from them in frustration at their inability to produce an adequate likeness. Whether they were unable or unwilling to produce acceptable forgeries at that stage is unknown. A talent like Sara’s is rare, perhaps even in her family. It seems possible that the family intended to hold the Mona Lisa until one of them had mastered da Vinci’s technique well enough to reproduce the painting but that Peruggia’s patience wore thin. The happy result was that the painting was returned to France and is now in our possession.

I will return to Paris to coordinate the activities of our art experts in rescuing the great works for the Fatherland. My lieutenants will continue to comb Venice for the wretched girl, but I hold no hope that she will be found.

The house in Montmartre has been thoroughly searched and the materials and works of art there have been catalogued and passed to our restoration team. The house itself has returned to its role as a staging post for troops in transit.

The discovery of more of Sara’s work, concealed behind panels in the gondolier’s home, brings a happy conclusion to another part of our enquiries. Her forgeries are truly exquisite and our experts would be hard pressed to detect the fraud if we did not already know that this was the work of the Ghetto family.

With your permission I would like to present one of these works to you, and another to the Fuhrer as a mark of my esteem and my gratitude for your support in our work.

Heil Hitler.
