Mission Intercept 7B: Trinity

Charlie, I don't think you should have come to London; we can't risk meeting, and your arrival has been noticed by BOSS heightening suspicion. Harry's team is actively investigating our organisation and we have to do everything we can to put them off the scent.
Unfortunately, I'm working with very constrained resources. Despite all our pandemic preparations it has been hard work over the last eighteen months. As planned, we used the crisis to embed more operatives at the heart of government decision making. Under the cover of SAGE and the other new committees, we now have a network of scientists and engineers in Whitehall with the direct ear of senior civil servants and politicians. They also helped us to infiltrate COP, giving us direct access to a number of other governments that had remained beyond our reach. While we were not able to fully deliver on our plans for that event, the connections we made with some of the world's largest companies and smallest states will surely pay off in the medium term. On the downside, I haven't had the capacity I need to work on the BOSS investigation into our organisation that is being run from the Archaeology Division here at GCHQ.
I had hoped that assignment meant that the case was regarded as low priority, but Harry assigned his best agent, Jodie, to run it and gave her almost unlimited resources. She has teams all across the UK trawling through the papers we left behind at the Lighthouse and trying to work out what they mean. I am so angry at myself for that, but I have personally checked, and all the major items from the foundation archive were shipped out to Massourie and have been secured at the Park. I assigned a team to make sure that the key documents were properly encrypted in case Jodie's team finds them, but given the talent she is working with, I now think we might need to take further steps, and I plan to visit the HQ as soon as I can get away.
Whether or not Jodie and her team work out what we are doing, the best way to make sure that Harry does not find out might be to convince her not to tell him. I have been carrying out some background checks, and I am wondering if we should just try to recruit her directly. If she was working with us, then I'm sure she would see the need for secrecy. The direct approach is risky, but the organisation has never shied away from that before, or you and I wouldn't be working for it. I think it is a risk worth taking.
Your loving niece,
Trinity
