My dear Charles,

I hope that once you have read this letter you will agree that a term of endearment is merited on both our parts.

I must begin with a wholehearted apology for the accusations I levelled against your close friend, Miss Ternan, and, indirectly, against you. As you clearly asserted in your letter to me, she is a woman of unimpeachable character and I was wrong to suggest that she was in any way involved in a plot to support the evil of slavery. I cannot now think how it was that I could be convinced such a thing was possible, but I can see now how easy it is to misread evidence and to draw conclusions that the evidence cannot support. While I still strongly believe in the methods that General Dodge and I are pursuing, I understand much better their limitations and the dangers they present. If anything, I believe that this has strengthened the case to present our proposal to the President. Now that we have discovered these methods of surveillance, we have to confront the probability that they will be rediscovered, perhaps by others whose commitment to justice and freedom is less certain than our own. If this technology is to be used for good, it must surely be under the control of those who have been charged with the protection of the public. In our own case the Queen and her ministers; in the case of the Americas, the President and his cabinet. I would urge you to reconsider your stand and to press our case with him when you meet.

As for Miss Ternan, I do owe her an apology, and I will offer that if you think it would be of service. However, I recognise that it may be better for her never to know that I doubted her, in which case I will carry my guilt knowing that I do so in service of her self respect. I would be very grateful for your counsel in this regard.

If I might offer a small mitigation for my mistake, which you can take or refuse, then it would be an explanation of how that awful error arose. While testing our equipment in New York, Grenville’s agents intercepted a series of messages passed between the businessman Miller and an unknown person who, it became apparent, was within your close circle. The messages were encrypted and signed with pseudonyms, Molinaro and Rokesmith, inspiring within us suspicion of their motives. The letters described an effort to obtain access to materials you carried. In our fevered imaginations this could only refer to the designs you had agreed to transport on my behalf, however it is now clear that this was an error of hubris on my part. There were other precious documents among your effects that were much more likely to be of interest to a publisher – the drafts of your latest novel. It appears that the negotiations we stumbled upon were in fact an attempt by Miss Ternan to sell the rights to The Mystery of Edwin Drood to a consortium of American publishers who would in exchange join your campaign for copyright reform. She had only your interests at heart and was a ferocious negotiator; you can be proud to call her your friend. If she can ever forgive me then I hope that one day I might also be allowed that privilege.

I will leave this letter here, though there is much more to be said and done to repair our friendship. Whether this letter satisfies your need for an apology can only be decided by you, but I look forward to your reply in the hope that it will.

In the meantime, given the deep significance of the work commenced with General Dodge and the continuing disruption caused by the Klan across the South I would respectfully ask you again to reconsider and to press our case with the President when you meet.

Charles
