Report on the meeting between Charles Dickens and the President and the ensuing events for the members of the Curia of the Trinity Foundation

The President greeted Mr Dickens fulsomely and invited him to be seated. After initial exchanges the room was cleared of all other participants to allow confidential exchanges. The record of their conversation comes courtesy of a verbatim report by Mr Dickens, received by General Grenville Dodge and passed to Charles Babbage in a personal letter.

Mr Dickens thanked the President for his hospitality and for his enthusiastic support for Mr Dickens’ performance.

The President returned these thanks with a glowing encomium that embarrassed Mr Dickens, but assured him of the President’s warmth of feeling, both in his person and for his work.

Mr Dickens offered the President a copy of the Ticknor and Fields Edition of A Christmas Carol, taking the liberty of remarking that this was the only correct and authorised edition of his readings.

The President was, thankfully, amused by this remark and noted that he was aware of Mr Dickens’s strong views on the matter of copyright.

Mr Dickens asked if he might take the liberty of querying whether the President supported his campaign for copyright reform as strongly as he supported Mr Dickens’s other endeavours and received the following reply.

“Mr Dickens, I fully appreciate the right of creative men, whether writers, composers or engineers, to profit from their works. Indeed, our founders recognised this too, and copyright is enshrined in our Constitution, as it says there, to promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries. But you will appreciate that the Constitution was designed also to build a land of the free, and our simple folk, businessmen and readers alike, take a very dim view of Presidents who increase the costs of living. At a time when our country is deeply fractured it would be a foolish President who poked that bear, and I would be very reluctant to be seen to openly support you on this delicate matter. I should of course say that I am deeply supportive of your rights and your ambitions in this matter, and if there is anything I can do of a confidential nature to ensure that you are paid what you are owed, then I will surely do so.”

Mr Dickens took this opportunity to ask if the President felt he had a good grasp of the views of his voters, given that he seemed unsure whether the campaign would have support. The President opined that any man in his position would love to know the thoughts of his electorate, and Mr Dickens took the liberty of introducing the possibilities inherent in the novel inventions of Mr Babbage and General Dodge. The notions thereby presented were of immediate import to the President whose evident interest was noted by Mr Dickens.

While nothing so vulgar as a quid pro quo was even suggested by either party, it was agreed that there was much to discuss on both accounts, copyright and telegraphic surveillance.

It is at this point that Mr Dickens’s report ended, on a most promising note, and it is therefore unfortunate that the proposal never reached fruition. The following day the Prime Minister, Lord Derby, retired, believing his work to be complete, however seventeen days later The President was impeached by the House of Representatives, and all talk of collaboration was lost in the frantic preparations for his trial.

Despite the very best efforts of the General and his friends the plan was beyond rescue. Nonetheless the device itself is of evident importance and will allow the government to monitor subversive agitators across the Empire who are making increasing use of the telegraph to organise and to agitate against the Crown. While that may ensure the stability we desire in order to continue the work of the Trinity Foundation, we will necessarily need to monitor the use of this device to ensure that it does not lead to oppression of those we seek to serve.

Babbage
