My dearest Ellen,

We are, at last, arrived in New York, and I cannot tell you how happy I am to be here. After a long and arduous sea journey I cannot say it is the best of times, but it is far from the worst!

Thank you so much for commending me to your friend Mr Dickens. He is a demanding employer, but not unkind, and the work is engaging and rewarding in equal measure. Encouraged by his good friend Mr Wilkie, he has begun to consider a new novel in the style of a mystery, and I think it might be his finest idea yet. I am not certain whether the voyage itself has tired him, but he has seemed in low spirits since we arrived, and I am hoping that this new project will help to lift them.

I wonder if his demeanour is in part related to the appearance of a rather strange note that was delivered to his cabin on arrival in the port. It is most intriguing. As you know, I am required to open and sort all the mail, determining which letters, if any, require Mr Dickens' attention. The letter was marked "STRICTLY PRIVATE FOR MR CHARLES DICKENS", but I confess I had already opened the envelope before I noticed the stern injunction and therefore had seen the contents which were not for my eyes. I say seen rather than read, for it was impossible to read the words therein, if indeed they were words! The characters, while familiar, made no sense and I determined to replace the letter in its envelope and to pass it to Mr Dickens with my apologies. He took it, saying nothing and spent some time alone in his cabin. I did not see the letter again but did discover a small pile of ash in a dish upon his desk.

Unable to suppress my curiosity I enquired of the ship's steward if he knew anything of this note, and he told me that it had been delivered by hand, by a man known to the crew as secretary to Mr Grenville M. Dodge. I know nothing of this man, beyond the fact that he is a wealthy industrialist, and I can only suppose that he is hoping to meet the famous author privately. If so, I think he may be disappointed. Our schedule is already full, and I cannot think that we should vary it in response to the many such requests. Still, I cannot escape the impression that this was more than a private invitation. If it were then I cannot see why its contents would need to be secured. It seems there may be more than one mystery at hand.

Yours sincerely,

Clara
