My dear General,

I was relieved and delighted to read your last letter and to learn that Mr Dickens brings news from England. He is a man of great honour, with a deep love and care for the oppressed in this world, and I believe he has an important part to play in shaping the peace that follows our war of liberation.

I have tried repeatedly to make my case to the President, but he remains deaf to my entreaties. Some have argued that I should abandon that attempt, and that his obvious lack of desire to stand up to the secessionist states disqualifies him as an ally in the fight for true freedom. But I have written before, and will state it again, I would unite with anybody to do right and with nobody to do wrong. He is our President and has it in his power to do great good. I earnestly hope that through the agency of Mr Dickens we might win him to our cause.

The Klan continues its growth across the South, and it is increasingly clear that they are a highly organised and motivated group. Their actions spread fear among their fellow citizens, but also inspire a dreadful admiration among some, and anything we can do to disrupt them, we must do.

Some of our colleagues are wary of your proposal. As champions of freedom they revolt at the invasion of privacy that you have proposed, and argue that it will weaken those it sets out to defend as much as those it attacks, but you have intimated that the work of your colleagues across the ocean may well address that point and I would invite you to expand on that argument. It may be necessary to clearly articulate the mitigations you have in mind, not least if Mr. Dickens is to persuade our President to authorise the work you are proposing. His eloquence and passion will go some way to achieving our aims, but a weak argument is still weak even when dressed in the best oratory. I think we need to do more to buttress the case that we are asking him to present.

Since actions speak louder than words, can I suggest that we stage a small demonstration of the devices either for Mr. Dickens, or, perhaps more pertinently, for the President himself? I know that they are not easily moved, but might they perhaps be shipped to Washington by rail so that your technology could be properly explained? While I am convinced by your advocacy others might need more direct evidence of the capacity and efficacy of these extraordinary machines.

Yours sincerely

Frederick Douglass
