My dear Thaddeus,

I am sorry to tell you that the President is resolute in his decision to appoint Stanton as Secretary of War. Despite the passing of the Tenure of Office Act, he insists that appointments to the Cabinet are his prerogative and his alone, and he does not accept the right of Congress to limit his ability to shape the executive branch.

Given his previous actions in undermining our efforts to support the freed men of the South and his refusal to hold the Confederate leaders to account, I fear that reconstruction will founder unless some way can be contrived to remove him from office.

Impeachment may be the only course left available to us. I know this will pain you, given your previous efforts to hold Mr Johnson to account, but with your leadership I believe that on this third occasion we might succeed in trying him, and perhaps even the threat of discipline will be enough to change his course. I can only hope that this will prove to be the case.

His crimes are many and various, but in order to succeed we will need to carefully frame them as insults to the constitution. You have expressed a wish to prosecute him for violating his oath to “take care that the laws be faithfully executed”. I have to warn you that I think this unlikely to succeed. He will argue that the thirty ninth Congress was not duly constituted and that therefore he is not to be bound by its resolutions. There is unlikely to be any harm in pursuing that case other than the cost to you in energy and time, though I think it more fruitful to concentrate our efforts on his failure to abide by the Tenure of Office Act. While a technical breach it has infuriated many in Congress and a unanimous, or close to unanimous, vote of censure is more likely to carry weight than one which splits the House more evenly. Even if the Representatives vote to impeach the President, we still need the Senate to find him guilty of the charges. A broad net might catch our fish, but to reel him in I think we need to stiffen the resolve of our friends, and a conclusive vote to impeach will carry much more weight. We must bear in mind those, like Senator Grimes, who regard Mr Johnson as entirely unfit to hold office, but whose concerns centre on the sanctity of the Constitution. Our case must be iron clad if it is to safely navigate the stormy seas of a Senate hearing.

You may disagree, and I am, of course, happy to debate this with you. Our goals coincide, it is only our methods that may be at odds.

Your humble servant and friend,

Charles
