My Dear Charles,

I really must remind you to wear your spectacles when reading. It is truly the case that you are a much better writer than reader! The codeword I asked you to pass on to Grenville was to be found on page twenty-four of the volume, not page twenty-one, and if Grenville had not been such an accomplished cryptologist I think we would have been in serious difficulty. If I ask you to pass on a cipher key again then you must take more care to ensure you do so correctly. On a more positive note, your mistake did suggest a method to more securely transmit keys while reducing the likelihood that they will fall into the wrong hands, so I suppose I ought to thank you.

Now to a more important matter that I have been reluctant to raise with you until I was more certain of my conclusions. It will shock you and I am sorry to be the bearer of this news, but after discussing the matter with Grenville I feel that I must mention it.

We have reason to believe that your friend Miss Ternan may be in league with an organisation in the United States that is trying to steal our designs. She has been communicating with a publisher in New York named Miller, who appears to be coordinating a consortium who wish to obtain access to material that you have taken with you on your tour. We can only think that this refers to the design drawings which I asked you to convey to the General and his colleagues at the telegraph company.

This material is, as I told you before you left, of critical importance to the security of both countries, and could play a significant role in helping to surveille and supress the Ku Klux Klan and its fellow travellers in the secessionist states. Lord Derby has impressed upon you the importance of persuading the President to adopt this system, but that will be to no avail if the Klan is able to circumvent it. Under no circumstances must these materials fall into their hands.

I would urge you to consider if Miss Ternan has ever said anything to you that might intimate that she is anything less than trustworthy. It is of the utmost importance that we determine whether she is a willing accomplice, or perhaps has been, as they say in the New World, duped, so that we can determine our proper actions.

With a heavy heart, your friend

Babbage
