Harry,

It looks like your plan worked, though I'm not sure even
I understood it. As you predicted, the marine party
encountered serious resistance at the pick-up point. They
brought the Hercules in to land during an engagement
with the advanced party of commie naval infantry. As you
suggested they faked a direct hit by the enemy on
landing and gave them plenty of time to radio news of
the hit back to their base. Our marines held the
perimeter and wiped out the Reds' reconnaissance team
before they could make it to the wreckage of the plane,
planted the fake beacon, laid charges and blew it all up
before evacuating under heavy fire from the main Soviet
attack force. Losses to the shore party were seven killed
and twelve wounded. The latter are being transferred to
hospital at Spitzbergen for assessment. The loss of these
men will be attributed to a training accident.

The main force of spetznaz should have explored the remains
of the plane by now. The charges on our decoy beacon were
large enough that only a few carefully placed Soviet
resistors could be left. They won't be able to resist the
conclusion that their secrets are safe.

Our tech boys think you are right. The Russkies are
aiming to set up a global navigation system based on
satellite timing signals. I guess we'll be working on
the same thing. The real beacon was recovered by the
British SBS party without incident and it is now aboard
their secret new Dreadnought nuclear sub en route to Rosyth.
We'll transfer it there to a US ship on a routine courtesy
call, for transport back Stateside. I was highly sceptical
about using the Brits, but they came through in the end.

Your idea of using the entire US mission as a diversion was
tactically a masterstroke. Not only did we get the satellite,
but also a lot of intelligence about the new cipher machine.
I've enclosed prints of the photos you took of the machine
settings when you were on board the weather station, maybe
we can use this to decrypt their transmissions for a while.

The only intelligence downside was that we had to move against
the agent Wax to shut down any possibility of leaks. However,
we can use him to feed back useful disinformation for a while.

Of course, I need hardly remind you that this story must never
get out. However, I wouldn't be surprised if a few Intelligence
Stars and Presidential citations are on their way.

Sorry to hear you are being transferred back to shore duties,
it's been a pleasure having you on board the Michael Five
and I hope we can work together again some time.

All the best,
Captain Omen
