over the years the heroic role of agricola at watling street came to the
notice of rome and two decades later he was appointed pro consul and
governor of britannia by emperor vespasian. a few years after his
appointment vespasian’s son, domitian, became emperor, and one of his
first acts was to issue the order to implement the new imperial ciphers
invented by the cipher school.

in the intervening years the ninth had been left to fight lonely skirmishes
and battles from their base at eboracum. with fortitude and resolve they
repeatedly drove the barbarians back into the cold heartlands of caledonia.
during one such skirmish varus was mortally wounded and agricola promoted
the tribune marcus fidelius cato to the legatus of the ninth.

one day the luck of the ninth seemed to change. a reconnaissance squad
reported that they had seen the aquila flying from a tree at mons graupius,
in a camp ruled by a tribesman called calgacus. the new legatus recognised
that the privations of a long march had exhausted his men, they were not
ready for battle and cato should have sent for reinforcements, but the joy
of seeing the lost aquila so close at hand clouded his judgement, and he
launched an attack under the cover of darkness.

fighting uphill against wave upon wave of barbarians, the legion's heroic
efforts were frustrated by the sun rising to blind them as dawn broke. the
troops in the front line gave way with exhaustion and the wild calgacus
dashed out of the sun down the blood-soaked slope with his cavalry into
the heart of the legion. the legion rained flaming arrows upon the enemy
and managed to unhorse calgacus taking him prisoner, but could make no
headway against the savage hordes and were unable to reach the stolen
aquila. worse was to come.

while cato organised a retreat with the prisoner calgacus in chains, the
remaining soldiers held the line against repeated charges by caledonian
and icenian tribesmen. when the line finally broke, cato and many of the
ninth legion had reached safety and took stock. the cavalry were safe, as
were many of the brave legionnaires, but to his horror, cato realised that
in the battle he had lost the second aquila, and worse, the legion's copy
of the codex had also gone.

the documents left to me by agricola are unclear on this point. did he know
that the codex might have fallen into enemy hands and that a second aquila
had been lost? or did cato assure him that the codex had been destroyed as
part of an orderly retreat? perhaps cato was yet to re-join agricola at the
fort, and communications from the battle had yet to reach him. in a letter
to emperor domitian, agricola wrote “most excellent emperor, as you have
most graciously requested i have finished my affairs here in britannia in
preparation for returning to your side in rome. it pleases me to report to
you that by acts of diplomacy and strength i have persuaded the northern
rebels to yield to our army and to turn over to us the rebel calgacus who
has remained free since the wars against boudicca and the iceni.” his letter
appears to have been a reply to new orders from rome in which domitian wrote
"my esteemed gnaeus, upon receipt of your most recent letter i have been most
troubled. it appears clear to me that the situation in britannia has worsened
and so i must ask you to return to me at rome with the utmost speed. conduct
your remaining affairs in the province and do not undertake any action which
may enflame the current tensions between yourself and the caledonii." the
final line of the emperor's letter set a deadline for agricola's return,
"i shall expect you to have crossed the rubicon by the end of the year",
and perhaps he felt that contrition was a safer refuge.

whatever agricola knew at that point, within a month his world had been
turned upside down, as further reports from caledonia made clear that his
hope of restoration in the eyes of the emperor were in real jeopardy. he
set out to recover the two aquilae and to determine what had happened to
the codex before returning to rome.

those who read on must search for the truth in the spiritual home of
the amazons.
