i, tiberius hawksmoor, being of sound mind, hereby revoke all other
wills and codicils i may previously have executed. this document is
my final declaration of intent for the disposal of any assets that
remain under my ownership and control, and is my final opportunity
to set the record straight concerning the awful events of the last
fifteen years. it is also my final letter to you, dear nicholas.

i could begin in any number of ways, but perhaps i should start back
in nineteen thirteen, when i received an invitation from prof. otto
hahn to attend a meeting of the deutschen chemischen gesellschaft zu
berlin. the society was to be addressed by prof. emile fischer on his
work concerning corrosive gases and their effects on the human body.
this was a subject that i found personally distasteful but professionally
of profound importance, since i owned and operated a number of factories
manufacturing chemical products, and i took the safety of those plants
and my employees very seriously. the visit was productive and i learned
a lot, perhaps more than was good for me.

on my return i was met from the boat in southampton by two gentlemen
from an organization they called verona - volunteer enterprises, royal
ordnance association. this top-secret government agency was responsible
for recruiting leaders of the manufacturing industries to support the
diplomatic and military efforts of the foreign office, and they asked
me to provide them with a report on fischer's work. i had deep
reservations, but i recognised the growing threat of war and i was
increasingly afraid that chemical weapons might be used. in any case
the two gentlemen, who, for obvious reasons, i nicknamed valentine and
proteus, were very persuasive. i learned later that they belonged to a
group within verona known as the fabulists, dedicated to what we would
now call information warfare. they were skilled proponents of propaganda
and misinformation, and masters of a whole panoply of methods of persuasion.

knowing of your own dreadful experiences i am ashamed to admit that i
found myself attracted by the new challenges of work with the agency.
at that stage i was almost entirely concerned with investigating methods
of protection against the ravages of chlorine and mustard gas attacks
and i was convinced that my work could save lives. i rediscovered a love
for the daily rituals of the laboratory and enjoyed the close collegial
atmosphere in the secret world of verona. at their request i maintained
my contacts with the german scientists, convinced that dialog might
prevent the full horrors of the coming war, but in june nineteen fourteen
a conversation with v and p led to me to realise that, by providing our
army with protection from the effects of these terrible weapons, my
research could precipitate their use by our own side.

frightened by this and by the growing political instability in europe i
resigned immediately from the agency and returned to the laboratories of
the company i had founded. the two gentleman of verona were, to say the
least, unhappy, but i convinced them that my factories were still vital
to british economic interests and for a while they left me alone. this
story might have ended there if i had not received the telegram from your
mother on january fifth, nineteen fifteen.
