Mrs Ada Lovelace
Horsley Towers
East Horsley
Surrey
My Dearest Ada,
I was very pleased to receive your letter, and I must apologise that I have taken so long to reply. My duties with regards to the Great Exhibition are absorbing most of my waking hours, leaving little time for other pursuits.
The news that the great Koh-i-Noor diamond is to play a central role in the exhibition has caused considerable consternation among the organisers. The need for security is in some conflict with Her Majesty's expressed hope that her subjects will be suitably enchanted by the jewel. It is not that impressive even at close hand, having been cut in the Indian style rather than the faceted cut with which we are more familiar in the West. While large, its failure to catch the light leaves it rather underwhelming, especially placed within a secure enclosure at some distance from the spectators. All the solutions proposed to date have failed to meet Royal approval but I will be discussing the India Pavilion with Prince Albert later today and I hope that we might settle on a satisfactory solution then. That would free me to spend more time on other interests.
Which brings me to that other rough diamond, Miss Warne. Her letter to you has rather caught my attention. I had not heard that our American cousins had adopted the custom of employing female detectives, and my contacts at Scotland Yard were equally surprised. After a little reflection I realised that we had no right to be. You have already demonstrated that women have much to offer in fields once reserved to men, and Miss Warne's letter shows that your example is known across the world. I suspect that we will find many others of your sex following in your footsteps. I look forward to meeting some of them, though perhaps not Miss Warne who I suspect could not afford the cost of a transatlantic crossing.
To the matter in hand: I am not sure what the markings on the bullet case might mean. It is an unusual set of letters - too long for an acronym, and not a word in any language with which I am familiar. On the other hand, the triple F and lack of vowels makes it highly unlikely to be an English word encrypted with a substitution or permutation cypher, or even with a combination of these.
Context is everything and it would be very helpful if Miss Warne could provide some. I have no sense of how urgent her enquiry might be, and even the fastest ships take over a week to carry the post, so I think that we should respond quickly. We need to know if there are any other clues that might help us to determine the meaning of the inscription.
Will you be in the city this week? Perhaps we could meet to discuss the wording of our letter.
With my fondest wishes for you and your husband,
Charles Babbage
