Dear Miss Warne,
Thank you for your letter and the intriguing puzzle that you sent me. I have discussed it with my close friend and collaborator Mr Charles Babbage, and we are both of the opinion that it is a mystery that demands a little more context if we are to be of any assistance to you. We hope that we are able to help you, but we are somewhat uncertain whether this is something that demands our immediate attention. If so how do you propose that we should proceed? Even with the improvements in transatlantic traffic it will take some time to investigate this matter by post and I am afraid we are still some way from the introduction of the transatlantic telegraph. (Though our friend Mr Wheatstone is working all hours to hasten that development.) We would be grateful if you could reply with any further information that may help us.
On the matter of the bullet, Mr Babbage has suggested the possibility that the lettering might be of foreign origin, but we are not aware of a language in which this combination of latin consonants could signify an expressible word. He suggested also that the characters might be those of an acronym, though the lack of punctuation and the relatively large number of letters makes this, too, unlikely.
We are then brought to the possibility, which I am sure you had in mind, that the text on the case might represent some form of encyphered communication. The shortness of the text presents a significant problem. We are unable to apply our usual techniques of frequency analysis to determine any pattern, and without more context we have no cribs or other clues to its likely meaning. In your letter you mentioned that the bullet was found in a shipping warehouse near a stack of sealed crates, and that these were bound for England. We would find it most helpful if you could tell us, should you know, the contents of those crates, the individual or corporation to which they belong and the recipient for whom they are or were intended.
I am sorry it has taken so long for me to reply to you, but Mr Babbage is heavily involved in the preparations for the International Fair to be held later in the year. Given the Prince Consort's involvement you can imagine that there are high expectations on all of those who are involved in its delivery. Be assured however that we will give our full attention to your reply and we hope to be able to assist you.
With our very best wishes,
Ada Lovelace and Charles Babbage
