My dear Charles,
Kate has returned covered in grease and dirt and barely able to talk after her journey. Once she had recovered, and my maid had found her a change of clothing, we discussed her discoveries at length. She is a most thoughtful young woman, and her rough speech and manners disguise a keen eye and a sharp intellect. She provided me with the following details concerning Herr Kaiser's arms shipment.
It is comprised of two styles of crate, the first long and narrow, each containing six rifles manufactured by the Imperial Arms company. The guns are packed in straw and protected with a mineral oil rust inhibitor. Kate is more used to seeing guns shipped in tallow and, I think in jest, remarked that this was the only new element in the manufacture of the guns. I do not recall this being mentioned by Herr Kaiser, but then it is such a trivial point.
The other crates were in the style of tea chests, each containing two hundred boxes of cartridges. Kate sketched the contents for me, but there is nothing remarkable about them except the number. I will show you the sketches when you visit as they are too large to enclose.
The seals of several of the crates had been removed for inspection by the customs officials and others had been subsequently removed by the warehouse staff at the request of the company. This allowed Kate to inspect all of them, and she spent a night removing all the contents and checking them. Each crate contained the same number of boxes and each box contained the same number of cartridges, protected with a mineral grease, again in preference to tallow.
Each box was full, as was each crate, so I think we can be sure that nothing had been tampered with. You can reassure Palmerston that there is no reason for concern about the security of the shipment. I understand that it is already on its way to the Exhibition accompanied by staff from Imperial Arms.
I did ask Kate about the gentleman who had been spied in the vicinity of the warehouse, but she had little to add apart from the fact that he wore a peculiar gem in his turban. I believe these are known as sarpechs and we can take it from this description that he was in fact a Sikh, not a Hindu. A peculiarity lay in the fact that the gems adorning it were all black. I do not think she had appreciated the full significance; these decorations are only worn by those of royal descent. I would think it a mere curiosity were it not for the fact that the great diamond will play such a significant role in the exhibition. I know that not all of the Sikhs were in favour of Maharajah Duleep Singh's magnificent gift to Her Majesty, and while I cannot at present make a connection between the Koh-i-noor and Herr Kaiser, it must at least be possible that there is one.
May I request that you consult with Palmerston on this matter? Are any of his staff familiar with the gentleman spied in Liverpool, and are the security services confident that the diamond will be safe?
With so many questions arising from Kate's report I feel that we ought to take a little more care in our communications from this time on. May I take the liberty of suggesting that your reply should be secured with a Vigenere cipher, using my personal key?
I look forward to your reply as always,
Ada
