My dear Ada,
I am sorry for the delay in my reply, I have found the last few days remarkably busy. Before I could respond to your letter I was called to Whitehall Place to deal with an incident that had occurred at Kaiser's lodgings. A young woman had been apprehended outside the property carrying a large bag, in which were found photographic equipment and plates. Not believing her story of being a journalist, and recognising her accent as American, the constable placed her under arrest.
Fortunately, recognising the potential for a diplomatic incident, he transported the suspect to headquarters, whereupon she requested that I should be called.
I am still unclear what prompted Miss Warne in her actions, but she clearly believes that Herr Kaiser has something to hide, and apparently took it upon herself to break in to his Lodge and to take photographs of documents she found there. She apparently borrowed the equipment from Wheatstone, who has been experimenting with faster exposure imaging. What he thought he was doing in assisting the young lady, I am at a loss to explain. Miss Warne seems to possess a charm that is lost on me, but which persuades others to join her in her mad adventures.
The delay has been caused in part by the need to process the plates and to consider their contents. Unfortunately our amateur photographer failed to protect the images and they were badly over-exposed. I suspect she had not realised just how sensitive Wheatstone's formula is. The only legible part of any of the images was the phrase "Janus Project". According to Miss Warne this was written on the cover of a file containing encrypted documents which she had also attempted to copy.
It has taken all my persuasion and an intervention by Palmerston to get her released, and I am afraid that the police have confiscated all of the equipment. I foresee a disagreeable conversation with Wheatstone in my near future.
I do not know what we are to make of this. Palmerston has made it clear that Miss Warne cannot be allowed to continue in this irresponsible way. She risks jeopardising  the delicate negotiations between the government and Herr Kaiser's company. And yet I think she may be on to something. I asked Palmerston about the Sikh with the black serpach and he immediately knew who I meant. The gentleman in question is a Prince and high ranking official in Duleep Singh's entourage. He is visiting the Great Exhibition as the official representative of the Maharajah, and has been heavily involved in discussions about the display of the diamond. The Maharajah is deeply concerned that the gem should be fully appreciated by her Majesty's subjects, but shares her concern at our ability to ensure its safety.  Not wishing to stir up more ill feeling over the gift of the diamond, those discussions have been at the highest level and I was not made aware of them until now.
Palmerston was also not aware that the Prince had left London, but he was not unduly surprised nor was he alarmed that there might be a connection between the Maharajah and Herr Kaiser, given that the latter is sponsoring the India Pavilion.
While I agree that we need to continue our investigations, can I ask you, please, to do your very best to tame Miss Warne? The little time I have available is better spent contemplating her discoveries than dealing with the authorities on her behalf.
With my best wishes as always to you and your husband,
Babbage
