My dear Charles,
Please accept my sincerest apologies for the trouble caused by our guest. I know that your current travails occupy most of your time and we are all so very grateful that you have given your time to support Miss Warne.
She is, I will admit, unconventional, at least by the standards of our usual company. You no doubt find her tiresome, with some justification given the effort you have had to expend in order to extract her from the clutches of our friends at police HQ. If her adventures were purely recreational then I would share your frustration, but she has fully convinced me that there is something here for us to investigate, and I most urgently beg you to give this matter your attention.
While we do not have the photographic evidence that Miss Warne set out to obtain, she has the most extraordinary gift of being able to recall the images she attempted to record in the most incredible detail. I would not have believed this claim, if it were not for the fact that the text she described is clearly encrypted and I do not believe that she would have been able to invent it.
I have taken the liberty of transcribing the Janus Project document as dictated by Miss Warne and will turn my attention to its decipherment, as I am sure that you are too busy to attend to that matter. Wheatstone will be visiting this afternoon to test our new telegraphic equipment, so I may send you the decryption that way if that is agreeable to you.
In the meantime I would be most grateful if you could spare the time to consider the following question: If the Imperial Arms cargo had not been stolen, then where did the bullet come from? I can believe that a few bullets might not be missed in such a large cargo, but Kate is most scrupulous and certain that was not possible - the crates were full. Did Herr Kaiser not notice, or did he not care? And if opened, why were the crates resealed? Petty thieves are unlikely to take such trouble.
Oh, but in re-reading that paragraph, a thought has occurred to me! It is too fantastical to share in its infant state and I will need to ponder it a little before it matures into something worth offering for your consideration. Let it suffice that I think the answer is not that Herr Kaiser failed to notice or to care, but that he took great pains to ensure that we would not notice and therefore that WE would not care!
Perhaps I have said enough for you to chance across the same thought. I will be most intrigued to see if you do. In the meantime could I ask you to make the following enquiry of your contacts in the Customs and Excise department? How were the crates in the shipment labelled, and how were they inspected?
May I conclude by suggesting that we should increase our security a little? If my suspicions are correct, then Herr Kaiser may be taking an interest in your communications and it would be a pity to alert him to our concerns. Since the Vigenere cipher continues to resist attack (even by you!), it should provide a level of secrecy suitable for our purposes. I suggest that we use the chapter titles from The Copperfield Disclosures for keys, though I would welcome your thoughts on our future arrangements.
Yours excitedly,
Ada
