My dear Ada,
It is I who should apologise to you. Our guest is certainly trouble, but not more trouble than she is worth, and I share your view that she has cause for her suspicions.
While the discussions between Herr Kaiser and the Prince may well be innocent, the fact that a dealer in armaments is spending such a considerable amount of time and money ingratiating himself with Duleep Singh should concern us. While I do not believe that the Maharajah is interested in stirring conflict it is my experience that those who benefit most from an instability are the merchants of weaponry. It is certainly not in Herr Kaiser's financial interests to encourage peace. Even a hint of trouble in the Northern territories could lead to pressure on the government to reinforce the existing EIC armies, at great cost to us and enormous gain to him.
I am only glad that the discussions are with the Sikh community. They at least pay lip service to Her Majesty's authority, as evidenced by the gift of the diamond. If there were any suggestion that Herr Kaiser is engaged in discussions with the Hindu leadership then I think we would be in a much more dangerous position. Their loyalty is at best precarious, and it would not take much to trigger a war. That might be in the interests of the Imperial Arms Manufacturing Company, but it would not be in ours!
I must admit to being curious as to the hints you gave at the end of your last letter, concerning your "fantastical" thought. I cannot claim to have had any insight into the strange matter of the shipment, but I did make the enquiries you requested of me and so I will close with the answers.
The rifle crates were labelled with letters, while the bullet crates were numbered from I to XXIII. The customs officials called for a random sample to be delivered to the office for inspection, one at a time. Each was opened, inspected and returned to the floor and the next was summoned. In all the officers inspected seven crates, numbered III, VIII, XI, XII, XV, XVIII and XXII. Each was recorded by the officials as holding two hundred boxes of cartridges, each of which was full, just as reported by Miss Warne. There was nothing remarkable about the cargo and the customs officer was happy to release it to the company charged with shipping it on to London. Unless our friend has some magical power of which I am not aware, I cannot see how this shipment can have concealed a secret.
Can it be that this is in any way helpful? It seems only to confirm what we both already knew. The crates were full of the curios shipped by Herr Kaiser for his stand at the exhibition. The bullets themselves are of little use, and despite my suspicions, I cannot find anything in this account to suggest that the shipment was in any way unusual.
I look forward to our meeting on Thursday. I am hoping that, at the very least, you will be able to share the Janus Project file with me. If you feel able to share your deliberations on the shipment too, then I will consider the trip more than worthwhile.
Your intrigued friend,
Babbage
PS While I agree that the present cipher provides reasonable security, I do have an idea that may eventually lead to its demise. Wheatstone is experimenting with a new idea that may well lead to its replacement, inspired by the ancients. I wonder if the Polybius cipher, in its various forms, might provide us with a useful alternative.
