My dear Babbage,
I must admit to some surprise at your request but know from our history that I cannot afford to ignore it. Nonetheless, please take this advice: the prime minister is deeply concerned that your actions may jeopardise our delicate negotiations with the Imperial Arms Manufacturing company about supplying our troops. It is not yet public knowledge, but the innovation in this process lies in the simple replacement of tallow with mineral oils and grease in the design and manufacturing of the weapons.  The Company armies which conquered and control much of the Indian sub-continent are staffed with men of all faiths, and to many in that great land the tallow on our current weapons is at best distasteful, and at worst an intolerable insult to their religion. The government benefits greatly from the fees paid by the Company to enhance its own presidency armies with regiments of our own. Between them they need to arm over three hundred uniformed men, and a deal to arm them with Kaiser's weapons will be of great mutual benefit. The announcement of the deal is planned as a highlight of the world fair, establishing our military and commercial supremacy and cementing our control of the region.
With that in mind I urge you to tread carefully, and to think carefully how you use the information I have provided below.
You asked me to elaborate on the processes and procedures used by the Customs and Excise officials at the port of Liverpool. I take it you have in mind the inspection of the Imperial Arms shipment and so I arranged for a report from the agents themselves.
As with all shipments, they were examined before the shipping company were allowed to unpack them, guarded until that point by port officials, supervised by the local Customs Officers. A sample of crates was summoned, one at a time, from the warehouse floor to Excise office, where they were opened and unloaded, their contents checked against the manifest and returned.
With only a few rifle crates to inspect, they were all checked, while as you reported, only a select sample of the bullet crates were opened. These were identical, each containing two hundred boxes of bullets, which were themselves full. The officials noted only that it was difficult to check the bullet boxes as they were randomly packed the right way up and upside down, meaning that they had to be removed and turned to allow them to be opened for inspection. The company manager was very apologetic and insisted on repacking the crates himself.
Apart from that, nothing unusual was noted in their report. Having read your description of Miss Warne's investigations and Mrs Lovelace's notes on the findings I am afraid I cannot work out for myself why they are so concerned about this shipment, but I am sure that you will enlighten me at the appropriate time. May I politely request that you only do so if firstly you are certain in your conclusions, and secondly that your concerns merit the disruption that you are likely to cause to a significant strategic relationship.
With my very best etc.,
Palmerston
