My dearest Charles,
I am so very grateful to you for writing to Lord Palmerston. I know that it must have been difficult for you to do so given the delicacy of the matter, but I can assure you that it was certainly worth the risk. Everything we have learned confirmed my fears. I think I can tell you now, with complete certainty, that we have not seen everything brought into the country in Herr Kaiser's shipment.
While it did not seem possible for the crates to contain anything in addition to the bullets, the report from the custom's officials, together with Kate's own findings, have revealed to me just how that could have been done. I had thought that perhaps the smuggled cargo had been removed before the customs inspection, but I now believe that was not the case. The use of roman numerals to label them seemed like a conceit, relating to the names of the company and its proprietor, and echoing the use of the numerals on the bullets themselves, but I now believe that this was the intention. The real reason for it was that certain of the numerals can be read upside down! The crates themselves were entirely symmetrical except for the numbers on them, but that meant that by the artifice of inverting crates nine and eleven they could be swapped without detection.
I am not sure whether the contraband was contained in crate nine or eleven, but whichever it was, if the officials summoned that crate, then the other was brought, upside down, ready for inspection. In the unlikely event that both were requested, the safe crate would be furnished on both occasions. The fact that the bullet boxes were randomly placed right way up and upside down in the crate meant that the trick would not be evident, and the contraband crate would never be inspected.
I was confused by the fact that when Kate inspected the crates, they were all full of bullet boxes when throughout the journey one of them had contained contraband; where did the additional bullets come from? But that too is elementary, and I think you will enjoy discovering the ruse for yourself so I will refrain from spoiling it for you.
We are left with the singular mystery of the smuggled goods! While I am certain in my own mind that something other than guns and bullets were shipped with the Kaiser armaments, I find myself at a loss to discern what that might have been. Despite our very best efforts (and Kate's ingenuity) we have yet to find good evidence that Herr Kaiser was involved in any deception. I have spent many hours perusing the Janus Project files with no clear insight into the nature of the encryption.  While I am sure that they contain the key to this mystery I still have no insight into how we might best attack them.
I am most eager to hear your own thoughts on this matter - and though I know you are busy I would beg you, please, to meet with me at your very earliest convenience.
Yours,
Ada
