My dearest Charles and Lord Palmerston,

I understand that you are both still at a loss concerning the method used to smuggle contraband into our country. I had thought it rather obvious given the information furnished by our own dear Kate, however time is passing, and I must explain the ruse so that we may move on to more pressing issues.

The bullets were shipped in boxes packed edge to edge in the crates, with one crate emptied of all but two hundred flattened boxes. These would be needed later. The remaining capacity in the crate was used for the smuggled goods.

But what of those bullets? The boxes in the other crates each contained twenty-three, packed tight. I will send you a sketch of the arrangement this afternoon which makes it apparent that the boxes could easily accept this number.

When Kate inspected the boxes, she found that each contained only twenty-two bullets. Once the customs officials had released the shipment, someone removed the contraband and redistributed the ammunition. One bullet was taken from each box, and together they were packed into the now empty crate. Twenty-two bullets in each of four thousand six hundred boxes gives the same number as twenty-three in each of four thousand four hundred, and so the deception was complete.

I would perhaps have missed this if it were not for the comment about the random orientation of the bullets when inspected by the revenue officers. This was so at odds with the ordered sketch provided for us by Kate that it was apparent that someone had taken the trouble to empty all the boxes and to repack them. Unfortunately for them, and fortunately for us, their penchant for order signalled what they had done.

None of this helps us to determine the original contents of the other crate, though I have my suspicions, which have been prompted by the second Janus Project File. I leave it to you both to consider its contents, to see if you are drawn to the same alarming conclusion as am I.

With my fondest regards,

Ada Lovelace.

PS, I realise now that I should have taken care to encypher this message before encoding it on the new telegraphy system, however, given the urgency of this message, and since we are the only parties to the upgraded machines, I have decided to risk sending it without further effort.

In the unlikely event that Kaiser or his co-conspirators intercept our communications and decode them, then, at worst they will surely realise that the game is up, bringing an end to their plans. If my suspicions are correct, that would be a victory of sorts.

Preventing the forthcoming disaster is surely more important than establishing proof that Herr Kaiser is behind it.
