Lynn Frank was far too relaxed about the disappearance of her colleague. She made a good attempt to look worried, but she asked the wrong question: “where is she?”, instead of “is she alright?” It wasn't much, but it was enough to raise our suspicion.
The police had set up barriers and tents along the beach to keep sightseers away, but that didn't stop us driving past the investigation site. The road was straight and well-lit, and the car seemed to have veered off the highway and entered the water via a pebble bank that would have slowed it right down. The driver should have had plenty of time to stop or leap out if they were conscious. We will find out tomorrow if there was anything wrong with the brakes, but it seems too much of a coincidence that the car missed the sand, leaving essentially no tracks on its way into the water. It also didn't feel like an accident that it hit the very deepest spot on the shoreline ensuring it would be hidden from view. The car was standing on the beach, draining, with a hoard of crime scene investigators swarming around it. There was no ambulance nor sign of a body, but police divers were preparing to search when we left.
Maybe I am too optimistic, but I don't think they will find anything. My guess is that Anna has been kidnapped. It wouldn't be the first time that had happened to a bank official, though it was usually prior to the break in, with the victim forced to hand over vault codes in exchange for their freedom. I couldn't quite see why someone would be kidnapped after the crime, but I am hoping that the attached message might explain it.
It was unorthodox, for which read illegal, but I managed to get the lamplighters to put a trace on calls to the mobile numbers of all the senior bank officials, together with the people in Lynn Frank's office. Call traces don't give you as much as an intercept can, but signals intelligence has always been a big part of BOSS work, and just knowing who is calling who and when they called can tell you a lot.
This is doubly true if you can cross reference calls to the behaviour of a suspect, so Jodie set up a video stakeout on both the bank and the VBA HQ, again breaking all the rules, and we sat and waited for something to happen.
We quickly spotted a pattern: Lynn had one caller who rang three times from apparently random locations and every time Lynn immediately left whoever she was talking to and headed for a quiet spot to take the call. It wasn't possible to listen in, but we did manage to get the geolocation data from the network and were able to cross reference it with a text that had been sent just before the third of those calls. While we couldn't listen to the calls without a warrant, a text is not automatically encrypted by the system so the lamplighters were able to read it and could see that the sender had added a layer of encryption themself. That gave the team sufficient cause to log it as an official intercept and hand it over. if Jodie's calculations are right, it uses a Vigenere cipher with period five, but we don't have time to crack it now, as we have another lead to follow in New York. We know you can do it for us and look forward to seeing your decrypt.
