Dear Jodie, thanks so much for the book, the recommendation, and the challenge! Christie is one of my favourite authors, and of course she shares a first name with my great Aunt, Agatha Highfield. We have a file on her in the Archive and I am sure you would enjoy reading it.
The Mansion is fabulous, I can easily imagine Miss Marple or Poirot taking tea here and it is the ideal background for a sabbatical. It has a real gothic feel, though I must admit, the current owner didn't seem all that happy when I said so to her. She was polite, but not amused, and muttered something like "will they never stop haunting us" as she walked away.
Ghosts seem to be the theme at the moment - I decrypted the paper you sent and found the acrostic. At first I thought the initial letters spelt out Red Rum, and assumed the note was associated with the kidnap of the famous racehorse, but it didn't take long to realise that it should be read backwards: Murder. Can you say more about where the note came from? Is it a cold case you are working on? Sounds fun. Sudoku is all very well, but to really stretch the little grey cells (as Poirot would say) I would love something a little stronger, so if there is anything else in the file that I could assist with, let me know.
You mentioned that you are working with the trainees again. I suggest that we encrypt our messages to one another and set them as an exercise for the team. We could start with something simple for the newbies and then ramp up the difficulty. What do you think?
Anyway, it is time for coffee. They serve it in the Orangery mid-afternoon. To be honest I expected tea in a country house like this, but that is the power of this place - it completely sells the illusion that I am back in England, rather than New England. Right down to the panelling and the carpets. Whoever built it had an eye for detail.
I will look forward to hearing from you. Don't forget to send me something interesting to do - I need to keep my brain sharp for when I get back, and even the great Agatha is no match for the BOSS archives.
All the best,
Harry
