Memo
From: Docking-manoeuvre office
To: AS test-flight space systems
RE: AS docking collar tests

Preliminary testing of the docking collar system has revealed a
potentially serious flaw in the design which must be addressed
before the system can be certified. The issue concerns the emergency
release system.

Background: The docking system performs the following functions:
impact energy absorption, mechanical connection, spacecraft alignment,
and retraction, spacecraft hard mechanical connection, and docking
interface sealing, spacecraft undocking, and separation. In order to
achieve these functions, the docking system consists of three principle
parts: the base, a structural ring, and the latching ring. The docking
system base is the main structural member to which the docking system
assemblies are attached. The structural ring carries the body latches,
which provide a hard pressure-tight connection between the two
spacecraft. Together with the capture latches which operate during the
docking manoeuvre, these perform the docking function. They consist of
eight active and eight passive hooks with an electrical drive installed
on one of the latches and closed-loop cables connecting them. Each
active hook has a cam-operated mechanism which performs its opening
and tightening. Corresponding hooks of the passive docking system are
captured by active hooks. Each passive hook has a stack of preloaded
bellville springs providing a definite force for the docking interface.
Pre-loading the docking interface seal will provide pressure integrity
of the docking interfaces. This consists of two concentric rubber ring
seals on each system, and a manhole cover is used to close the transfer
tunnel of the spacecraft. Hatch locking and unlocking is manually
performed by the crew. It is sealed by a mechanism which has a further
eight eccentric latches, these being connected with each other by means
of closed-cable connection. The docking system is equipped with alarm
and meter system which provide telemetry to the ships and to ground
control. In standard operational mode undocking is performed by
release of the active spacecraft capture latches and then by opening
the structure latch hooks. If necessary, undocking can be performed
by the passive spacecraft by releasing the body-mounted latches and
opening the structure latch passive hooks. Spacecraft separation is
performed by spring thrusters symmetrically located on the structural
rings of both systems. After the latches release, the principle
difference between the Russian and US docking system designs can be
seen in the guide-ring system. Unlike the Russian electro-mechanical
docking system, Apollo is equipped with an electric drive which uses
cable connections to trigger the latches. Another essential difference
is the Russian emergency release system (ERS), a backup provided by
pyro bolts attached to each passive and active hook which operates
in passive mode and provides practically instantaneous undocking in
the event of a system malfunction or accident onboard one or both of
the docked spacecraft. Situations in which the ERS might be initiated
include

i.   uncontrolled fire or explosion onboard one of the spacecraft
     during docked operations
ii.  failure of the docking control system, preventing standard
     release operation
iii. attitude control failure of, or unplanned firing on, one or
     both spacecraft, imposing high stresses on the docking mechanism

While the ERS provides an effective backup for emergency situations,
simulations and tests on the Huntsville docking test bed show that
the effectiveness of the pyrotechnic bolts is a critical issue. Too
much explosive could cause critical damage to the pressure seals
around the hatch, while too little can leave the spacecraft attached
with a damaged mechanism. The ERS was designed for operation on USSR
missions and is therefore tuned to the structural constraints on the
Soviet platform. Since the latches are electromagnetic on that
spacecraft, they are less prone to damage under vibrational forces.
The motor and cable mechanism used on the Apollo platform is more
vulnerable to shock, and under certain test conditions has been
shown to fail, following the triggering of the ERS on the Soviet
end of the docking mechanism. Shockwaves will not, of course,
propagate through the vacuum of space, but the forces can be
transmitted through the tunnel to the Apollo latches, and if the
bolts fire asymmetrically this places a torsion loading on the
mechanism which can unseat the drive cables. In five of the seven
tests where this phenomenon was observed the engineers were able
to reseat the cables by repeatedly operating the mechanism, but in
the remaining two cases the mechanism was beyond repair without
manual intervention. Unfortunately, in these two cases the safety
interlock also prevented the hatch from being opened, which could
make it difficult for the astronauts to carryout a spacewalk to
execute the required repair. In this case, it would normally be
possible for the astronauts to manually operate the manhole latches
by disassembling and subsequently assembling the hatch cover. However,
if the latching mechanisms have been sufficiently damaged by the pyro
bolts this might prove a risky option, and it is even possible that
the cover latches would fail to retract manually.

We have asked Queen's team to take a look at this, and she assures
me that they can sort it out. She has worked on most of the Apollo
mission design teams, so I am pretty confident that she can make
sure everything is OK for this one.
