As the Red Sun rises, the cracks will propagate

Comrades, it is clear that the uneasy peace between the four powers is unlikely to persist. Churchill’s comments at Yalta made clear that the British refuse to face the future success of global communism and Truman’s speech in Congress yesterday, spelled out his new doctrine of support for governments striving to oppress the proletariat. Our immediate concern is to maintain our sphere of influence in the Balkan states and the eastern European countries. If we are to see a red sun rising over the west and to succeed in establishing an international communist society then our task is clear.

We must create and propagate cracks between the allies. While the Americans and British share an irrational hatred of our politics they are also suspicious of one another, and both share a deep suspicion of their French collaborators. We must work to enhance this suspicion and drive a wedge between the allies so that they are unable to coordinate their work against us.

There is a natural venue for this project in Berlin, where our allies are cheek to cheek and yet deeply divided. They have a common goal to identify Nazi war criminals, and to try them or to turn them, but the nuclear arms race in which they are all engaged is one which they would each like to win. I propose that we set a false trail designed to sow discord among them. We have placed agents in their headquarters who will be able to assist us in our misinformation campaign, which I call the Reichsdoktor campaign. We have invented a Nazi defector and a fictitious Nazi relocation programme which our agent will offer to sell to all three powers. With the right incentives they will find themselves bidding against one another for intelligence, and with the right misinformation they will each believe that their allies are working against them. With luck, before long, their intelligence sharing arrangements will break down and we will be well placed to increase our powerbase in our historic march westwards.

Comrades, the future belongs to the Soviet Union. Let us work together to make that destiny history.

Tovarisch Viktor Nachal'nik Shpionov
