Apollo XI Post-Flight Analysis
Spacecraft Reentry Trajectory Review

This document contains information about the events during the reentry
phase of Apollo XI. It has been compiled to satisfy flight-planning
safety requirements. The review covers the following mission phase:
trans-Earth coast, which ends with reentry into the mid-Pacific recovery
area.

The original flight plan called for separation of the CM from the SM
twelve minutes before entry interface. Successful separation would then
trigger a sequence of burns intended to stabilise the service module and
to move it out of the reentry corridor to avoid debris collisions with
the command module during the reentry phase. The reaction-control
system burn sequence involved both the roll and the minus-X jets. The
attitude burns were intended to set up a roll in order to stabilise
remaining fuel and to prevent uncontrolled gyration during the boost
that would have then taken the SM out of the reentry corridor into a
high-altitude orbit that would decay only after the command module had
landed, in the event the sequence of burns did not achieve the required
trajectory shift.

With reports from the astronauts on board and from a commercial airline
pilot that the two space vehicles reentered the atmosphere together
with the CM passing the SM during the plasma burn-phase, given the
proximity of the vehicles during reentry, it is considered highly
fortunate that no debris from the relatively unprotected SM struck the
CM, and simulations show that such a strike would have been likely to
cause catastrophic damage to the CM. Possible defects arising from a
collision include

    i.   Heat-shield damage: Even a minor crack in one of the heat-shield
         panels would be likely to cause superheating, which could breach
         the hull, leading to further catastrophic damage to the vehicle,
         with probable loss of life.

    ii.  Premature firing of the parachute pyrotechnics, leading to full
         or partial loss of the descent-arrest system and loss of life.

    iii. Damage to the parachute shield might have prevented the
         pyrotechnics from releasing the parachutes, leading to a
         catastrophic collision on landing and loss of life.

    iv.  Damage to one or more of the parachutes could have led to a
         high-velocity impact with probable resulting injuries and
         possible loss of life.

The high likelihood of catastrophic failure arising from the deviation
from flight parameters means that further analysis of the separation-burn
strategy is required. Pending that remediation for the Apollo XII, reentry
trajectory is a high priority. It is suggested that surplus fuel should
be ejected from the SM before the separation burn begins, in order to
stabilise the attitude, and that the minus-X burns should be timed to
coincide with the roll jets to improve stability.
