Harry,

With the launch of the Apollo-Soyuz mission coming up I thought it would
be a good idea to check in with Mike and make sure he didn't have any
left-over surprises for us. After the tank-pressurization problem on
Apollo XVII, I was not completely confident that he couldn't have set
something in motion back when he was still working at NASA. He seemed
pleased to see me--I don't think he gets many visitors--but we didn't
have a lot to talk about, and it didn't take him long to figure out
why I was there. He still claims he had nothing to do with what he
called "the accidents", though he admits he sent the letter to the
press. I pressed harder and asked him about the manifesto. It had been
read out in court, so he knew we knew about it, but he was definitely
trying hard to steer me off the topic, and I got the feeling he was
hiding something.

I didn't get anything more out of the interview, but I continued to
worry about it on the way back to headquarters, so when I got there
I dug out the manifesto and took another look. I don't know how we
missed it, but we never carried out forensics on the document. I guess
I was so taken up with cracking the cipher and analysing its content
that I forgot to ask someone to check it. As soon as I realised the
mistake I sent it over to Langley and got them to run the tests. The
results are conclusive: The manifesto was not produced on Mike's
typewriter. I looked through the files but couldn't find anything
written by him on another typewriter, even at work. There he had a
secretary to type for him, and in any case the ink and typeface on
the manifesto don't match any of the NASA machines either. A typewriter
is too big and bulky to hide, and we didn't give Mike time to dispose
of one, so I don't think the manifesto was written by him.

I read it again more carefully for clues. I should have noticed the
phrase "our son" at the top. It would have reminded me that Mike was
married. Putting that together with the keyword for the manifesto
cipher "NIOBE", things began to get a little clearer. Homer wrote
about Niobe in the Iliad. She was famous as the queen whose sons
were killed by the gods in revenge for her pride. So I got in touch
with Interpol and made enquiries about Mike's wife. Mike's wife is
also English, and the manifesto uses the English spelling of "programme".
Her friends say she had a breakdown after her son died, and when Mike
moved back to the US she went to live with her in-laws. After what
seemed like a slow recovery, she told them she was moving back to
the States to be near her original family. That was eleven years ago,
but her relatives stateside say they have not seen her, and no one
knows where she went. I spoke to the security service in the UK, and
they told me she was an engineer who was quite capable of carrying
out the sort of sabotage we saw on the earlier Apollo flights.
Significantly, she learned her trade working with the UK atomic-
weapons authority AWRE, which fits perfectly with the worries in
the manifesto. She left after her son died in Korea and started
meeting with peace campaigners. Her security clearance was revoked,
and soon after that she left the UK.

Soon after I received the report from London I took a call from the
Apollo-Soyuz team at NASA. Someone reminded them about the problems
we had with the lunar flights, so they called me back into audit
their security. I found a trail of edited service records that
reminded me of the tampered files associated with Apollo XIII.
The files were all scrambled using keys that came from Homer,
Apollodorus, and other Greek classics. So far we have cracked all
but one of them and found and fixed problems with guidance control,
life support, and electrical power. But there is one file I can't
crack. Without it, we don't know if there is some other critical
system that Mike's wife may have tampered with. She failed to provoke
America into declaring war on Russia three years ago, but the peace
is still far from easy. If anything happens to the crew of the ASTF
we might find ourselves on the brink of war again. With Stafford,
Brand, and Slayton scheduled for lift-off in the next few weeks, it
is crucial that we break this cipher.
