notes from interview with martin traynor
in attendance: MI, NSA, and reps from NIS

the suspect was carrying high-quality identity documents in the name
of james martin and claimed to be a dropout from a graduate programme
in computer science in neuchatel. his story checked out with the
university authorities. analysis showed a high degree of correlation
between the biometrics of the suspect and of martin traynor, but we
did not reveal that we suspected james to be martin. he refused requests
to provide a DNA sample for analysis, stating that DNA databases were a
tool of oppression.

a search of the suspect's belongings found no links with the UK at all,
despite the fact that voice characteristics suggest he spent a considerable
amount of time there as a child. the suspect stated that he had left all
that behind and was not prepared to talk about it.

taking care not to reveal what was already known about traynor's relationship
with the swiss bank, we turned to the suspect's financial arrangements. at
first he claimed to work entirely on a cash basis and not to have a bank
account, but when pressed on this he could not, or would not, explain where
he kept his cash reserve, even when we pointed out that he appeared to be too
well off for someone living hand-to-mouth. pushing harder, we revealed that
we had footage of him in the lobby of a bank, and he claimed that he had
visited on behalf of the collective as part of a phishing expedition on a
free-lance penetration test of the bank's security. when challenged about
the legality of this, he claimed it was a white-hat exercise, and that no
weaknesses had been found, so no further action had been taken by the
collective. under further questioning, however, it became apparent that the
suspect was talking about an entirely different bank from the swiss bank we
had been monitoring. he seemed to believe that we had footage of him in an
oslo branch. agents were sent to retrieve lobby footage of this bank, and
further analysis showed that his visits there tallied with the activities
he described at interview. however, we also noticed that a woman matching
dalmar's description was often videoed at the same branch during the period
under investigation. when asked about this, the suspect became highly
agitated and repeatedly demanded to call his lawyer. we pointed out that it
was unusual for a member of a hacking collective to have a lawyer on retainer,
but the suspect refused to answer any more questions until he had been
allowed to make the call. a call trace showed the mobile that he rang
belonged to a law firm which works for the arms manufacturer citadelle.

the suspect was released on bail pending charges of conspiracy to engage in
unauthorised access to computer technology at the bank and is being closely
watched. all calls to and from the law firm are being monitored, and the oslo
bank is under twenty-four/seven surveillance.

conclusions: we believe with near certainty that the suspect is martin traynor
and that the woman in the footage is jamelia dalmar. we believe they are in
communication with one another and are both being protected by citadelle or
one of its subsidiaries. we believe that they are both living in or near oslo,
and that they are both now highly likely to be aware that the net is closing
in. we do not understand how dalmar contrived to fake her death, and we still
do not have a clear picture of the interaction between the pds syndicate,
dynamix, and citadelle, nor do we fully understand why they have a strong
interest in traynor and dalmar. we believe that some or all of that
information may be contained in the encrypted files on traynor's laptop, which
has been passed to forensics for analysis and to secure the data.
