Mission Briefing 6A: Two clues

Harry, I am sure this must be very hard for you as I know that Charlie was a good friend, but we can't let that cloud our judgement. Given the content of her letter last week we have to assume she is involved somehow, and work on that basis.
Having said that, Charlie doesn't actually say anything that proves that she is a member of the Lighthouse Conspiracy. Of course, she is an experienced agent, so that might be deliberate, but she does refer to the Trinity group and it's possible that the Americans were already investigating the conspiracy under that code name. Everything in the email takes on a slightly different meaning if we view it that way, but that raises the question of why they didn't share the intelligence with us.
In the meantime, I tried to track back through Agatha's record to see if there is anything to suggest that she might have been a double agent. Nothing mentioned in the file raised a flag, but I noticed two things in the attached vetting summary:
After her initial run in with the German treasure hunters seeking the Babylon stone she went on the run, and papers reported that she was a passenger on the Titanic. As you know, she never boarded, and used that tragedy as a way to disappear. According to the report she did not reappear for over fourteen months, when she was recruited as an intelligence source in Cairo for the British Embassy. That raises the question of what she was doing for the year.
The other thing that struck a chord was the mention of Massourie. George Everest built a retreat there, and his name came up when I was researching the security files of Charles Babbage. It seems that Babbage was introduced to ideas from Indian mathematics by Everest and this influenced the development of the Difference Engine and its successors. Mary Boole wrote about this in her letter Indian Thought and Western Science in the Nineteenth Century. Given what CH wrote about the Difference Engine, this might be more than a coincidence, though perhaps I am reading too much into it.
For the sake of our trainees, I should say that the vetting report has been double encrypted using a Vigenere with a second, very simple, twist; I mention it because that threw me off for a while. I suggest that they reflect on what might be going on!
Given that we are now trying to avoid raising suspicion by the US and the Lighthouse Conspirators I think we should change our own protocols, so I have switched up to a transposition cipher. I suggest you do the same next time, though you could try something else like a Polybius square.
Jodie
