while it is true that suetonius set up the final battle with boudicca at
watling street, he had neither the troops nor the tactical ability to
overcome the huge numerical disadvantage faced by his army without the
support of agricola and his talented scouts. defeat would have been
inevitable, and with it the loss of britannia. having realised that the
iceni were reading his communications, agricola arranged to plant false
information about the planned disposition of troops, setting a trap into
which the iceni fell. it is still unclear how the savage tribes had learned
to decipher our army's communications, as they had no writing of their own.
however, every army has its traitors, and it seems likely to me that one or
more of the local tribespeople turned someone's head. love or money, it is
all treachery, but this act threatened to undermine the empire's entire
system of secure communication. the caesar cipher, perhaps more than roads,
had enabled the empire to function securely, and its loss was a disaster.
turning that loss into a victory on the battlefield deserved more
recognition than it received. perhaps suetonius never knew, or perhaps he
failed to understand the cunning of the plan, but either way, despite the
victory, agricola and the ninth legion remained in disgrace. on hearing
this news, claudius caesar augustus germanicus nero, emperor, issued a
secret proclamation establishing a cipher school to develop a new system
of imperial ciphers. it worked in secret for over twenty years, developing
new methods to secure communications across the empire, studying the works
of the greek sages euclid and hypatia and even older works from ancient
babylon. the school developed new ways to safeguard communications from
rome's enemies. these new systems were written down and distributed in the
codex occultorum, perhaps the most strictly guarded document in all history.
when it was finally completed many years later, the emperor domitian issued
an executive order which prefaced every copy of the codex that it was to
be guarded by every legion to the last man.

the defeat of the iceni and the suicide of boudicca perhaps protected the
ninth legion from dissolution. agricola was largely left to his own devices
in the province, though it was made clear to him that to return would mean
at best disgrace and at worst death. in a break with tradition, the ninth
raised a new standard. the legion was exiled in disgrace to endure the hard
and dangerous work of subduing the caledonii in the bleak wildernesses of
caledonia. suetonius ordered the ninth to march to eboracum, which they were
to make their base for raids into caledonia. the unspoken reason for their
exile was that intelligence reports suggested that this was where they might
find their lost aquila.

those who would read on must follow my faithful slave tiro, who faces a
grave task, perhaps the largest to date as he travels to conceal the
fourth chapter of this tragic tale.
