Mission Document 8B: Come on over to the dark side?

I suspect you already found and read my message to Charlie, so this letter won't be a surprise. I'm taking a chance, and I am asking you to do so as well. You will not regret it.
There are good reasons why you do the job that you do, but you must be frustrated by the limitations of working under government supervision, and I hope to persuade you that you could do better. You are talented and hard working. The fact that Harry recruited you would be enough to tell me that, but your record is outstanding too. Your work on the Kompromat Files first attracted our attention, but when Harry moved you to BOSS Central, I realised that approaching you was too big a risk, so we stepped back and have watching, waiting for the right opportunity to invite you to join us.
You will have doubts at first, we all did. But if our founders could be here to make the case, I think you would find it easier to accept. Caroline Herschel, Ada Lovelace, Florence Nightingale and Mary Everest Boole were exceptionally talented women who found a way to step beyond the bounds placed on them by society while still retaining their position. Our group, that you have been calling the Lighthouse Conspiracy, has maintained an unbroken line of power and influence, wielded by some of the greatest women of each generation. I can't count myself one of them, but I do count myself as lucky to serve with them, and I suspect you would too.
The rewards to be gained from this work are greater than anything you can achieve in your current role. I know that you have thought about it, I read the email you sent Harry. You are bored in your exile to the Archaeologists. If you join us, you will never be bored again.
I cannot hope to convince you in a letter, but I do hope to persuade you to take this offer seriously. I am prepared to meet with you, but of course there will be conditions. If you are willing to at least consider it, then I suggest that you visit the Souter Point Lighthouse, where I think you will find something interesting.
I have to finish with a warning: think very carefully before reporting this. We know that you did not share the last intercept with Harry, and you should consider what he would make of that, especially if he became aware of this letter.
Hoping to have an opportunity to persuade you,
Trinity.
