keyword: CHAINHOME
key: DKAQWLZTHEMBRXN#UIFOCSYP+VJG
plaintext:
MY DEAREST UNCLE WILHELM THE MISSION WAS A COMPLETE SUCCESS THE CHAIN HOME TOWER WAS DEMOLISHED SEVERAL BOSS AGENTS WERE CAPTURED THEY KEPT MUTTERING NONSENSE ABOUT ELVES AND THEY CAPITULATED QUICKLY IT IS OBVIOUS THAT THEY HAVE NO IDEA HOW OUR INGENIOUS CIPHER CLOCK WORKS AND THEREFORE OUR COMMUNICATIONS ARE SECURE SINCE THERE IS NOTHING ELSE TO TELL YOU HERE IS A PAGE FROM WIKIPEDIA SINCERELY YOUR NEPHEW KARL
Chain Home, or CH for short, was the codename for the ring of coastal Early Warning radar stations built by the Royal Air Force (RAF) before and during the Second World War to detect and track aircraft. Initially known as RDF, and given the official name Air Ministry Experimental Station Type one in nineteen forty, the radar units themselves were also known as Chain Home for most of their life. Chain Home was the first early warning radar network in the world, and the first military radar system to reach operational status. Its effect on the outcome of the war made it one of the most powerful weapons of what is today known as the Wizard War in late ninety thirty-four the Tizard Committee asked radio expert Robert Watson-Watt to comment on the repeated claims of radio death rays and reports suggesting Germany had built some sort of radio weapon. His assistant, Arnold Wilkins, demonstrated that a death ray was impossible but suggested radio could be used for long-range detection. In February nineteen thirty-five a demonstration was arranged by placing a receiver near a BBC shortwave transmitter and flying an aircraft around the area; an oscilloscope connected to the receiver showed a pattern from the aircraft's reflection. Funding quickly followed. Using commercial shortwave radio hardware, Watt's team built a prototype pulsed transmitter, and on seventeen june nineteen thirty-five  it successfully measured the angle and range of an aircraft that happened to be flying by. Basic development was completed by the end of the year, with detection ranges on the order of one hundred miles through nineteen thirty-six attention was focused on a production version, and early nineteen thirty-seven saw the addition of height finding. The first five stations, covering the approaches to London, were installed by nineteen thirty-seven and began full-time operation in nineteen thirty-eight Operational tests that year, using early units, demonstrated the difficulties in relaying useful information to the pilots in fighter aircraft. This led to the formation of the first integrated ground-controlled interception network, the Dowding system, which collected and filtered this information into a single view of the airspace Dozens of CH stations covering the majority of the eastern and southern coasts of the UK, along with a complete ground network with thousands of miles of private telephone lines, were ready by the time the war began in nineteen thirty-nine Chain Home proved decisive during the Battle of Britain in nineteen forty CH systems could detect enemy aircraft while they were still forming up over France, giving RAF commanders ample time to marshal their entire force directly in the path of the raid. This had the effect of multiplying the effectiveness of the RAF to the point that it was as if they had three times as many fighters, allowing them to defeat the larger German force. With such high efficiency, it was no longer the case that the bomber will always get through The Chain Home network was continually expanded, with over forty stations operational by the war's end. CH was not able to detect aircraft at low altitude, and from nineteen thirty-nine  was normally partnered with the Chain Home Low system, or AMES Type two which could detect aircraft flying at any altitude over five hundred feet Ports were covered by Chain Home Extra Low, which gave cover down to fifty feet  but at shorter ranges of approximately thirty miles in nineteen forty-two the ames type seven radar began to take over the job of tracking of targets once detected, and CH moved entirely to the early warning role.  Late in the war, when the threat of Luftwaffe bombing had ended, the CH systems were used to detect veetwo missile launches. After the war, they were reactivated as part of the ROTOR system to watch for Soviet bombers, before being replaced by newer systems in the nineteenfifties Today only a few of the original sites remain intact in any fashion.
