A mountain retreat

Harry, if you are reading this then you are probably also wondering where I am. I am sorry to disappear, but I have a lot to think about and need to work things out on my own. I am on the train to Massourie now and hoping that I will find the answers I need there, though I have already begun to put the pieces together.
The story started at Michael Faraday's lighthouse at Trinity Wharf and that should have been a big clue, especially with the reference to "the facility" in Florence's letter to him. We take it so much for granted now that we missed the importance of that place. It was when I looked into Souter Point that I realised why it might be relevant, and now, as I travel through the foothills of the Himalaya it is all coming into focus. The attached report was discovered by one of the ELVES in the lamp at Souter Point and was clearly left there for me to find. I am still not sure what the conspiracy set out to do, but I now know the significance of Trinity Wharf and Souter, and I can take a good guess at why they were interested in George Everest's house in the mountains. I don't know why I think there might still be something to find there, but since the conspiracy is clearly still active, I have to know what they are doing, and this is the only lead I have.
The connection between the early conspirators is also much clearer to me now. They all had an interest in mathematics and the natural sciences: Ada Lovelace was a key member of Babbage's team, with her early experiments with programming; Mary Everest Boole was an expert in logic, highly educated and well versed in Indian mathematical thought. At first, Florence Nightingale doesn't look like a great fit with the group. She is celebrated more for modernising nursing, but her innovations were based on serious data analysis, using everything she knew about statistics, and that was a lot. Caroline Herschel was another remarkable woman, the first to be paid a salary as a scientist, but I think her role was something more. She had huge influence in society and also held a position in government. Like Charlie and Trinity, she was technically gifted and well placed to take full advantage of those gifts. I need to know what they are trying to do, why and how.
Trinity warned me not to tell you about her letter, but that was never a possibility. Even if I didn't let you know what was going on, I am pretty sure that you would have found out, and I would much rather tell you myself. The only reason I didn't come to you straight away is that I still don't know what is going on, and I didn't want to put you in the difficult position of having to decide whether to trust me or not. Hopefully this visit will provide the evidence we need to unravel the conspiracy and to clear my name.
I will write to you again with news from The Park.
Jodie.
