Mission Intercept 3B: Prussia

My dear Miss N,
While the outbreak of the Austro-Prussian war has dismayed many of the chattering classes, I have found utter delight in the fact that we were able to forecast this development. The fact that we were able to do so, not days, or weeks, but months in advance is the proof that we have been seeking that our methods combined with the power of Professor B's new device can deliver the knowledge we need to shape our destiny.
The new statistical tools that you have pioneered can, I believe, assist us in modelling further outbreaks of violence and unrest. If you will allow me to mix metaphors, while we will not always be able to predict the onset of disease, we can hope to predict its course and thereby profit.
The device at Trinity Wharf is now working at full capacity and our colleagues tell me that it can compute anything we ask of it, given enough time and space in which to record the answers. Of course, these practical men did not think to ask how much time any particular question might take before we can receive its answer, but I think this is a calculation that I can leave to you. Before she was taken from us AL wrote extensive notes on the potential of the device, and I suspect you will find the answers therein.
In the current context the machine, provided with diplomatic intelligence by our network of agents in Europe, took five weeks to calculate the likelihood that Bismarck would launch his offensive, and to use the weather data gathered by W's telegraphic network to suggest when the attack would be launched. We had little agency in the conflict itself, but we were able to advise our sympathisers in government and thereby to expand our influence.
Our intelligence analysts are now working to determine the likely progression of the conflict in the hope of finding new ways to profit from it.
In mentioning W, I realise that I forgot to pass on his advice concerning security. He has convinced me that our current policy of communicating via substitution ciphers really is not sufficient to conceal our intentions. As our network expands the risk of leaks increases. He is working on a new and considerably more fiendish cipher, to be used for our most delicate secrets, and I hope to hear more about his progress on that when I meet him next month. Maxwell will be delivering the Bakerian Lecture and he is hoping to attend. I did wonder if M would be amenable to joining our conspiracy, but perhaps I should discuss that with the rest of the Curia.
I look forward to hearing your deliberations on the efficiency of the device and any thoughts you might have on its development.
Best wishes, ABC
