the clue was in the name. the black museum is world famous as the in-house
museum of crime at new scotland yard. the history books (or at least,
wikipedia) told me that it had been set up by inspector neame and pc randall
some time after april 1875 as a way to use the prisoners' property store to
instruct new recruits in the art of detection. the name first appears in
public in an article in the observer newspaper in 1877, and the historians
say it was coined as a grisly headline by a journalist who was snubbed by
neame, but i am not so sure. it didn't seem an accident that douglas black
was looking to set up a top secret archive in london at that time, and
scotland yard gave him the perfect location. it was central and easy to
access. it had several entrances, with a steady flow of visitors, not all
of them entirely reputable, that would disguise the comings and goings of
the agents and officers of black's network. best of all it had the entire
metropolitan police force standing guard, which was great for black, and
tough on me. it would be the ideal location for the shadow archive.

scotland yard had moved to new premises several times since it was first set
up, but i was betting that the shadow archive had moved with it, and i spent
the best part of three weeks scouting the norman shaw buildings and the new
"new scotland yard" next door at the curtis green building. it is not easy
to do that without being spotted, hence the night time reconnaissance in the
rain. the water and the cold played havoc with my mood, but also with many
detector systems so it was worth the discomfort.

no-one was likely to give me the real plans of the place, though harry was
happy to provide me with a copy of the official layout, and i used a lidar
system to map as much of the outside as i could. comparing the two should
have revealed unmarked storage areas and given me some idea how i might get
in, but nothing showed up until i had a lucky break. literally. i had
lowered the lidar detector down a shaft on the curtis green roof, hoping
to get a glimpse into some of the nearby rooms. it had just about reached
ground level when the nylon line snapped. it made a hell of a row as it
clattered down, and i prepared to run, but no alarms went off and, more
importantly, i noticed something significant. it had taken around five
seconds for the lidar to crash down, which, at a rough estimate, meant it
had fallen free for around one hundred and twenty metres. that would have
taken it a long way underground, and there were no basement rooms marked
on the plans in that location. i was pretty sure i had found the shadow
archive: now i just had to find a way in.
