Dear Ms Frank,
Hope you had a good weekend. Thank you for the safety deposit box access records you sent, though can I suggest that in the future we use a higher level of security? Even fairly inexperienced criminals can be familiar with these ciphers, and we don't know who might be monitoring your communication channels.
As promised, I examined the vault records in detail, and they do tell a story, though I am not sure what it means. There is a pattern in the numbers that is very suggestive and if you can expedite my request to spend some time alone in the vault then I hope to be able to investigate that further.
Re-examining the vault camera footage that you sent, I was surprised to see that Culpeper has no actual footage of the lobby or vault itself. Your security team explained that this is a privacy policy to ensure client confidentiality. It also seems to be the case that while customers sign in and out of the vault, bank staff are not required to do so. They told me that staff do not in general enter the inner chamber, and that no-one should enter the lobby unaccompanied while the vault is unlocked. The staff say that this protocol is taken very seriously; it is a sackable offense to enter the lobby alone. There is one exception. In order to ensure the security of the combination that opens the vault itself, the Chief Teller enters the lobby alone in the morning to open up. The Head of Security waits outside, then conducts a search of the teller when they leave the vault to ensure that nothing has been removed. The footage shows the pat down in progress that day, so I think it is fair to deduce that if the teller had removed anything from the safe then it would have been discovered at the time. That means that if anything was taken from the box, then it had already been removed when the teller and the security guard arrived.
Regarding the paper lining in the deposit box lid: I asked the bank staff about it and the Chief Teller, who is a Mandarin speaker, recognised the characters as the digits zero and one. She suggested that the three lines could denote the numbers five, four, three in binary, though other readings are possible. If they were written classically, for example to be read vertically right to left, then they could denote six, one, five. I wondered if this referred to the box number, as there are seven hundred and sixty-three boxes in the vault, but the box itself was apparently taken from cassette twenty-three, so unless it has been put back in the wrong place some time then I don't think that can be it. Perhaps someone at the bank might have an idea. Let me know when you have arranged the vault access for me.
Yours sincerely,
Jade Cifrar
