The attached document was intercepted by Harry's team who have managed to plant a bug on the communication lines out of Tirpitzufer.
Our cryptanalysts have examined the ciphertext and the case files and believe that it may be related to the Wheatstone clock cipher. Deputy head of the division has written a BOSS guide to these cipher machines and we have added that to the case files. Harry's team also recovered a scrap of burnt paper from the Abwehr HQ waste which carries the following message which we think might be part of the plaintext: "tentialSTOPThetripwireoptionisalsodeprecatedsinceitismorelikelythattheexpl"
The Navy reported that a Dutch fishing vessel was impounded by the Nazi authorities in Bremerhaven. The crew were detained, and negotiations are underway between the Dutch and German authorities to try to get the fishermen and their vessel back, but in the meantime RN patrols will watch out for the boat in case it is involved in the operation.
The Air Ministry have been briefed on our findings so far and have emphasised the importance of protecting the RDF system, which I am told they call Chain Home. VK is sympathetic, but the three of us are still worried about the new agents embedded in London and we are not sure how much of a threat they pose. It is crucial that we break the attached ciphertext as fast as possible so we can put effective countermeasures in place.
It is tempting to arrest all twenty-three spyclists and ask them directly, but without revealing the extent of our surveillance and codebreaking ability it will not be possible to prove that they have broken the law so we would not be able to detain or deport them. It would usually be better to watch and wait, but the Air Ministry feels that the risk to our air defence is too great, so we need to act fast.
If we knew exactly when and where they intended to attack Chain Home then we might be able to increase security to prevent it, but again we risk revealing our counterintelligence capabilities. Harry suggested that we could obscure our tracks by faking a visit by dignitaries to the target sites as a cover story for increased security, but we can't maintain the increase for long without raising suspicion, so it is crucial to determine their plans.
Whatever the Abwehr are intending they won't want their agents to fall into our hands, especially after a demolition, since that would give us the excuse we need to arrest them. It would be good to know what they have in mind for their exfiltration.
Things are very finely balanced. If we act too soon we give away our crucial advantage in the intercept war. If we act too late our enemies could seriously damage our air defence capability. It is clear that things are coming to a head and it is crucial that we crack the clock cipher as soon as possible. The fate of the country lies in your hands.
Pearl
