With resolve and trepidation my dear father in law obediently concluded his
affairs in Britannia and returned to Rome by the end of the year, as ordered
by the Emperor. He feared the same terrible end as meted out by Domitian to
both Arulenus Rusitcus and Hernnius Senecio, but the Gods were generous and,
remarkably the loss of the Codex remained a secret, known only to a few loyal
comrades from the Ninth. Publicly choosing to regard his dogged pursuit of
the Aquila as a mark of courage, the Emperor spared him the fate of other
disgraced generals and, to the surprise of some, he was awarded triumphal
decorations. A statue was erected by the Senate on the order of the Emperor,
but, taken ill, Agricola was sent to live quietly on his family estate where
he was tended by the Emperor's own physicians. His death was a grievous shock
to me, and a painful event to all his friends. It was felt as a real loss
even by those to whom he was not personally known. Numbers, moreover, of the
populace and the busy masses came to his house; and in public places, and
wherever knots of talkers were assembled, his name was on all lips; nor did
a single soul on hearing of his death rejoice at the news or forget it
quickly. This sympathy was increased by the wide-spread rumour that he had
been removed by poison on the Emperor's command. Domitian lost no time in
appointing the ambitious Salustius Lucullus as the new governor of the
province. He was charged with securing the fragile peace with Caledonia and
headed there to confront Calgacus. It was only then that the loss of the Codex
was revealed. Salustius wrote of his shock at the news in a letter to Cato
dated the fifth day before the kalends of May in the year of the consulships
of Marcus Arrecinus Clemens II and Lucius Baebius Honoratus. "We are expressly
charged by our most munificent and great Emperor Domitian to secure Pax Romana
in the Northern Kingdoms and yet you write to me of the loss of the Codex
Occultorum. Your leader Agricola has already paid the price of such a loss,
but if you do not recover the Codex before the passing of the year then you
may be sure that you will join him. You tell me that intelligence from a
captured spy suggests that the traitor Calgacus has the Codex and is massing
his supporters in the North. While the Barbarians themselves are unlikely to
make much of the Codex, Calgacus is an educated Roman and he must be stopped
before he can destroy the security of the Imperial ciphers. The Codex will be
recovered, or you, your family and everyone you know will pay the price.

And so to the seventh part of the true story of Agricola in which the fate of
the ninth legion and of the Codex itself will in time be revealed. Until then
it will be guarded by the ancient Babylonian Goddess of War.
