harry and charlie,

i am no closer to the pds syndicate, but i think i have begun to unravel
why they might be interested in jamelia and martin. as she told us in the
hidden message i sent last week, jamelia had been working on signal
recognition at dynamix. at first i was puzzled by this, as i couldn't see
how it related to weaponised gravity waves, but then i took a look at her
bookshelf, and it began to make sense. it was full of books on general
relativity, black holes, and neutron stars. jamelia was not working on
gravity waves, but on gravitational waves. i can see how the field agents
would have got confused. in the US they sometimes use both names for the
same thing, but they really are different. gravity waves are a seismological
phenomenon, as you already figured out. gravitational waves are entirely
different. einstein predicted them a hundred years ago, and they were
detected by the LIGO team last year. the signals are given off by things
like binary black hole systems and are incredibly faint. they easily get
swamped by local noise. it was an amazing feat detecting them, and jamelia
was part of that. to add to our confusion, she was in the team responsible
for designing the search algorithms and the noise filters used to spot the
signal of a galactic event against the noise of seismological activity, so
she did know something about gravity waves, too. i still don't know exactly
how dynamix were using her expertise, or what the pds syndicate are or do.
if you can get any intel on that, it might help guide my enquiries.

the noises i am hearing suggest that pds are serious: lots of cash, lots of
influence, so i suggest we increase the security for future messages. when
you reply, try using a double encryption: reversing things before applying
a keyword cipher to the message.

I will be out of contact for the rest of the week. i am taking a crash
course in neutron star dynamics in the hope that i can fit in better
with the locals. i have a test at dynamix on thursday for an internship
in their programming section. if i can get access to their network, then
maybe we can start to unravel this.

In the meantime, i found the attached memo slip folded up under one leg
of jamelia's desk. at first i thought it was just a fix for a wobbly desk,
but it turned out to be a fantastic place to hide a secret. it reminded
me of the purloined letter, which given the keyword is probably no
coincidence. it looks like jamelia and martin shared a love of old
detective stories.

trinity
