If I was hoping for an apology, or even an explanation, for Jodie's disappearance at the end of the last case then I was going to be disappointed, but I knew that and headed down to the restaurant with no expectations. I was also unsurprised that when I checked in with the concierge, I was told that the booking had been cancelled but that "the young lady has left you a message sir". The envelope contained a short note encrypted with a shift to protect it from casual prying, containing further instructions: "Corner of Davis and Main, eight thirty-five. You're buying."
The diner was definitely Jodie's style. The long wall of glass at the front and the mirror over the bar meant she could watch everything that was going on inside and outside at the same time. She had taken a table in the corner and had her back to the window, but she saw me approach and stood up to meet me. It felt like nothing had changed, though everything had, and I sat down opposite her eager to get talking.
We ate burgers and fries, and I drank coffee while Jodie drank water. Young people all seem to do that now, I don't know how they stay awake. Our conversation ranged widely over bank video systems; the vault access protocols and what we had each found out about Lynn Frank and Anna Smith. We even spent a while talking about the history of the post it note, the yellow tags that festoon every security report. They are a really good temporary way to mark notes without leaving a permanent trace. But our longest topic was Chinese characters and number systems.
The curious designs in the deposit box lids had attracted us both. It was clearly a binary encoding of some kind and Jodie had already noted that the markings were unique to each box. What I hadn't realised, but should have done, is that this included the square outline that appeared on some of the designs and not others. The fact that the designs did not repeat over the seven hundred odd boxes in the vault meant that this had to be the case. There are only five hundred and twelve numbers consisting of nine binary digits, so without the outline there would not have been enough designs for each box to have its own number.
After two hours we had cracked the design but were no closer to understanding what it meant. Five hundred and twelve of the pictograms were outlined in a red box, the remaining two hundred and forty-eight were not. The outlined pictograms ranged from nine zeros to nine ones, while those without the outline ranged from nine zeros to seven ones and two zeros. It wasn't much to go on, but we figured out that the outline should be interpreted as an additional digit, in this case a zero if it was present and a one if not. That tenth digit gave room for over a thousand designs, plenty for the box numbers. There was still the issue of how to read the binary digits. The design Jodie had sent to Lynn had several possible interpretations, but the most straightforward was to assume we should read the digits left to right and top to bottom giving one zero one one zero zero zero one one, or, in decimal, three hundred and fifty-five.
Three five five. It took us two minutes on the web to make the connection between that and the Culpeper bank, but I have a feeling that it will take us a lot longer to figure out the significance.
We would have worked on it for longer, but then I got a call. Anna's car had been found in the lake behind the country club. There was no sign of her, but they did recover her phone and with a little help from our friends in the tech division we managed to retrieve the attached encrypted message from it. It seems to be a railfence cipher and I hope we are not too late to find Anna.
