Harry had insisted we place the hole where it wouldn't be seen later.
I was pretty sure now that he planned to claim the table for his
office, so he suggested we remove the maker's nameplate and drill
there. It was just as well he did; the demolition charge was linked
to a web of mechanical detonators, and almost any other direction
would have disturbed at least one of them. The machinery was old, and
the sappers weren't happy working with it, but mechanical mechanisms
can be easier to work with than electronics. As you can see how
everything is connected, a judicious dose of superglue fixed most of
the mechanisms in place, just leaving us with the problem of what to
do with a heap of old and unstable explosives. Normally we would have
placed one or two of our own detonators and packed out the place with
sandbags and breeze blocks to contain the explosion, and I think even
Harry might have been convinced that that is what we should do in
this case, but unfortunately the explosives were not the only thing
we could see inside the safe. Sitting under them was a slim black book.
We couldn't see any details, but having got this far it seemed crazy
to destroy it. Anything this well protected must have been important
at some time, and we needed to know what this might all have been about.

After a quick call back to headquarters, Harry got approval to
continue trying to crack the safe. He knew me too well to ask me to
leave, but the documents team retreated to a safe distance down the
corridor, with most of the guards leaving a small team to watch over
us as we worked. One of them had joined the SAS from the sappers and
was an experienced bomb-disposal expert, so he worked with us, watching
the explosives for any changes, monitoring vibration and temperature,
and generally keeping us calm. It takes a special temperament to do
that work full-time, and we were glad of the company and the expertise.

After seventeen hours we were getting tired, and as eighteen approached
I began to wonder if we would manage to save the papers, but eventually
the final cog turned and the last tumbler fell into place. We had
managed to glue the broken cog back together, and with a mild protest
the top turned, raising a platform up through the central pillar to
present us with the book we had seen by the light of the endoscope.
It was bagged and secured, and Harry took it with him.

The special forces secured the entrances to the shadow archive, and I
left to get some sleep. We met the next day to go through the papers.
Harry had started on the decrypt, doing all the usual checks: frequency
analysis, index of coincidence, and so on. The distributions were
relatively flat so it was clearly not a simple Cadenus or substitution
cipher, and we started trying some of the ideas we had found in Black's
code book. It took us longer than we had expected, but after a few days
we had the entire set deciphered and had begun the analysis.

Harry had slightly different interests from me. I was fascinated by the
insights into an older world, while harry was focussed on why these
documents might have any contemporary significance. Both turned out to
be important. History matters, and as Marx said, it tends to repeat itself.
Personally, I would bet he wasn't the first person to say it, and he
won't be the last, but for us the point was that as we read more we
began to see the parallels between Black's world and our own, and it
was not comfortable reading.

When we got to the back of the book all became clear: The book was
actually a civil-service report on the Shadow Archive, closing it down
and giving reasons why Black had been too successful and his activities
had badly destabilised the Balkans. The report traced a direct line from
the Bulgarian crisis to later tragedies. Given his early enthusiasm for
his new methods of shadow diplomacy, I honestly believe he never meant
to cost so many lives, but it seemed clear from the report that Black's
interference in foreign/domestic politics had had dire consequences. It
looked all too familiar, and if our enemies wanted to discredit us when
we complained about their interference in domestic politics, then these
papers would be the ideal kompromat material. It looked like we weren't
just victims of these tactics; we had invented some of the methods
ourselves back in the nineteenth century.

Harry put out a request for analysts to work on recent signals traffic
to see if there was anything to suggest who was responsible for sending
me on the hunt for the kompromat files. There wasn't much, and certainly
nothing to link it to foreign government action. It was quite possible
that this was the work of one of the criminal networks that had grown
up after the fall of the Soviets. Market manipulation is a lucrative
business, and attacks on government credibility are a very effective
way to move whole markets.

The documents stolen from the archive were still out there somewhere,
and it was possible that they contained enough to embarrass us, but that
seemed unlikely. Whoever wrote the closure report had been thorough, and
it didn't seem likely they had left anything important on the shelves.
But time would tell. Harry set a watch in case anything surfaced and
asked me to keep an eye on the black markets, too.

As I suspected, the Shadow Archive table appeared a little later in his
headquarters, fully restored and I assumed completely disarmed. I returned
to the library to finish the job I had started, but when they offered me
a new contract I refused. I had a better offer--the table was in an office
next to Harry's with my name on the door.
