maryam,

i thought some more about what you said in the hospital, and given what
has happened i think i it would be good to work together.

unfortunately it seems that i am not the only one trying to find the book.
there is a thriving black market among bibliophiles for anything as old as
this. it is very valuable and if the book disappears into the shadowy world
of private libraries we might not see it again for centuries so it is really
important we get to it first.

tacitus clearly wanted to make it difficult to assemble the entire document,
so he had it hidden at a number of sites around the ancient world. the
british library decided to send someone to try to find all the pieces. their
experts figured the chapters were likely to be encrypted too so, given my
background, they asked me to go. they were right of course, the first chapter
was disguised using a caesar shift and the second by a scytale cipher, and i
am beginning to wonder what other ciphers tacitus might challenge us with.
as far as we know the romans would not have had that many to choose from.
i suppose he might have known about some form of the polybius cipher.

the documents i have found so far (tacitus' last testament and chapters one
and two of his hidden book) each give a clue to the location of the next one,
and as soon as they let me out of hospital i plan to try to locate the third
chapter, which tacitus tells us is hidden on the isle of thorns. there are
several places in the ancient world that this might refer to, but i have a
pretty good idea of where it might be.

if i think of anything else i will get it to you, and as requested i will
copy in your friend harry. i suggest we tighten security a little. maybe if
we block our cipher texts like the experts it will put off casual intercepts.
the people we are up against are unlikely to be deterred by much, but we
don't want to invite extra interlopers to the party.

by the way, my friend in the SOUK told me that he met one of your agents
who was asking if he knew where i was, which seems a bit odd given that you
know i am stuck here. was that just to throw our rivals off the scent?

all the best,

jodie
