If the death of our son in Korea taught me anything, it is that our
efforts to contain the Soviets by proxy wars is doomed. As my
loathing of the Soviet empire was stoked by his death, the USSR
feeds on the anger that we stir up with each war we fight. In its
puppet states we have tried to contain it, but I now realise that
we can only defeat it the way we fought fascism: by taking on its
might in open war. Our politicians have shrunk from the conflict
and they need a reason to confront the evil. Even the threat of
nuclear missiles based in Cuba did not give them the mettle to
fight; instead, they have convinced themselves that the mad doctrine
of mutually assured destruction will protect us, and that peace can
be maintained under the shelter of the nuclear umbrella. They do
not seem to see that the longer we cower in this shadow, the more
the two sides will invest in these awful weapons. Before long it
will be impossible to fight at all without the threat of total
annihilation, and when that day comes we will all be enslaved by whoever
is more ruthless. Lose, and we will be the slaves. The price of winning
might be worse.

At first, I hoped that the space race would help us turning the
missiles from weapons of war to carriers of peace, and Kennedy
seemed to have that in mind when he set his program to land on
the moon. By winning the space race, the administration hoped to
establish the supremacy of the capitalist system over communism,
cowing our enemies, and setting our hearts and minds on the conquest
of a new frontier. But Brezhnev seems undeterred, and even before
the launch of Apollo XI the American public is beginning to get
bored.

The threat of nuclear war is rising, and the peace protests, which
are intended to prevent it, are encouraging our enemies to believe
that they can win. War is unavoidable. To survive it, we must fight
it now, on our own terms, before the nuclear arsenals grow too
powerful. If our leaders will not act of their own volition, then
I will provoke the required confrontation. I will convince them that
the Russians have sabotaged the Lunar program and killed, or attempted
to kill, our astronauts. The Russians will never be able to prove that
they are innocent, and our politicians and generals will be forced
to strike back. The Russians will escalate in order to not look
weak, and once they have committed themselves, there will be no turning
back. The unavoidable war will have to be fought to its conclusion.
