Harry,

I am so sorry we went into the Russian HQ last night without you, but the Station Chief wanted it to be his team that got the glory. I am really grateful to you for coming back and putting us on the right track though. The stolen file from Soviet Headquarters was, as you expected, encrypted with the Solitaire cipher. Fortunately the cipher clerk who managed the encryption was incredibly careless. I found a sheet of burnt paper in the bin which gave me a list of thirty-eight cards, and I am hoping that this is a large part of the key. It will still be hard to break, but may be not impossible, especially as the erased part was still intact. There may be another clue in that the page appears to have been torn from an economics text book I found on the desk. Anyway, I figure the chemists at Langley may help us to reconstruct the whole key given time, though I wouldn’t expect them to manage more than one card a day given how careful they will have to be not to destroy the document. It will take us a while to crack this, but maybe time is on our side. With Christmas things seem to be quiet, and I am hoping that within the next three weeks we may know precisely what the Soviets were trying to do here.

Whatever the outcome I think it is clear that the future of Europe is not likely to be settled for a while. I hear rumours every day about shortages in the Soviet bloc and border controls are going up in places you wouldn’t expect to prevent large scale migration. There are problems in Greece and Turkey and divisions between the British and French, and the Brits are having real trouble paying off their war debts. Whether or not we crack the Reichsdoktor mystery I think there is going to be plenty for you to do. I know we had to work hard to persuade you to fly over, but we really do need you here. Even the Chief recognizes that, so if I can I want to persuade you to stay. Francois and I are being posted to Paris. Kind of a thank you for our work on this project. But I can’t go unless I know the Berlin station has someone I trust. Hope you’ll agree to take the job.

Charlie.
