While we did not have time to place any trained agents with the London Scout groups, the Akela operation did manage to recruit and brief several members of the Lincoln scouting association and one of them has made a major breakthrough, spotting something that our regular agents had not noticed. The London party consisted of twenty-three cyclists, but the group arriving in Lincoln had only twenty members. At first I assumed he had mis-counted, but the photograph in the local paper accompanying their report on the visit confirmed the number. I will make enquiries with our London agents to see if they have anything on the other three and will brief you on that next time. The group was tracked as they returned south, split up and visited a chain of Essex and Kent villages along the Thames, but despite their continuing interest in landmarks, nothing obvious in their behaviour suggested any particular plan. The northern group are now staying with scouts in Canewdon and Akela has recruited one of them to spy on the party. Our Air Ministry contacts are increasingly alarmed about the spyclists but are still not prepared to tell us what it is that is worrying them. They are particularly agitated about the presence at Caistor and now at Canewdon, and this concern about activity in East Anglia and Essex makes me wonder if it is connected with air defence for the capital, but they are refusing to tell, and it will be hard for us to help them if they won’t tell us what we are supposed to be protecting. The attached telegram was copied by an Akela agent in Spalding. His sister works at the telegraphy office and gave him access. The message was delivered by one of the spyclists, and once more it was addressed to Wilhelm in Tirpitzufer. The spyclists have reverted to a substitution cipher for this message but blocked it to disguise the message structure. That made it a lot harder to crack, but I am glad I did, it has a secret message hidden in the deciphered text which suggests that the spyclist mission is closing on its aims. I am not sure what the initials RDF stand for, but I will go back to the Air Ministry to ask if they have any suggestions. It is also clear from the contents of this message that the Germans are getting a little suspicious, so we will need to step up our own security. I will send my next briefing using a Vigenere cipher with key length three. More to follow. Pearl.
