Harry didn't show up at our rendezvous, and he didn't leave a message either. That was no reason to panic, he's a big boy and can take care of himself. In any case I had plenty of other reasons to panic. The realisation that Tallmadge was working for the CIA changed everything. First it meant that we had stumbled on something much bigger than a bank fraud, and second it meant that there was a serious risk I would be taken in.
I still wasn't entirely sure why Harry had come, but after the last few days I had reassured myself that he wasn't about to turn me in. I still hadn't explained my reasons for absconding, perhaps partly because I wasn't sure of them myself, but it was clear that Harry was here because he wanted to understand, not because he wanted to turn me in. Our cousins in the Agency were unlikely to be that sympathetic. That was assuming they knew I was on the run of course. Harry had not been clear about that, so there was still a chance that I could fly under their radar, but not if I was caught snooping on one of their own.
As for Tallmadge, there were two possibilities. He might be on the level, and maybe the kidnap and intimidation were all part of an operation. It was rougher than anything BOSS would do, but the Americans have different traditions. On the other hand, the CIA don't usually get to investigate US citizens. That is the province of the FBI and homeland security, so either there is a link between Anna, Lynn and a foreign power, or Tallmadge was running a distinctly dodgy operation.
The other possibility is that Tallmadge is running something off-books, maybe as a double agent, or possibly as a side hustle. Neither is attractive and either way he wouldn't thank us for getting involved.
It is tempting to try to hack into the Langley servers to find out more about Tallmadge, but the name was clearly a cover, and a search would trigger all sorts of alarms. Instead, I spent a while researching the name to see if it suggested the nature of his operation. I think it must just be a coincidence that the name Anna Smith turned up in the history books linked with it. It's a fairly common name, but I wonder if Anna had seen it when she did her own checks on Tallmadge. If so, it might have sparked a deeper interest, and maybe that was enough to lead us here; I hope to get a chance to ask her. The eighteenth-century Anna Smith seems to have been a member of the Culper spy ring responsible for signalling between agents. The life of a chief teller must have seemed light on drama compared to that, and maybe investigating Tallmadge relieved the boredom.
The more I think about it, the more certain I am that the vault is a communications system. What I don't know is whether Tallmadge was part of the system or if he was just investigating it. And is it live, or just a historic artefact? Is Tallmadge a treasure hunter? The Culper Ring must have had a fund to pay agents and I suppose it is not impossible that the location of that money is somehow encoded in the boxes. Or is he using the vault to pass intelligence across a network? If so, how is he doing it, and is this official or have we found ourselves a traitor?
Maybe when Harry resurfaces, we will find out.
