Mission Intercept 6B: Vetting update Agatha Highfield

Vetting update Agatha Highfield
Summary
June MCMXXXIII:
Agent AH is a well-regarded member of the intelligence community with strong connections in the UK and the USA. She has worked extensively with H on major cases and has full access at Top Secret and above. This is a standard periodic review of her clearance.
AH joined the organisation one month before the outbreak of the Great War and was initially assigned to Cairo because of her expertise in the Levant. On the outbreak of the conflict she was reassigned to duties in France, where she provided regular and valuable reports on troop dispositions while coordinating sabotage and propaganda. Since Versailles she has been a lead operative in our Europe office, specialising in the Weimar Republic.
AH has no permanent base in the UK and is known to spend significant periods in Africa and Asia. At the end of her most recent mission, she took a walking holiday in India, staying in Massourie. She has few friends, and a lifestyle consistent with her known resources, both on and between operations.
On her recent return to the UK, AH took an apartment in Greenwich where she lived until her current mission in Germany began. She had a small number of visitors during this period, including Chadwick, Cockroft and the Hungarian scientist Szilard. Presumably this is what led to her latest investigation, Die Alchemisten, which was launched at her own initiative.
Before leaving for Munich AH drafted a paper recommending the launch of a new branch of the agency dedicated to forward planning; she nicknamed this group the Lamplighters. The stated aim was to prepare long range reports outlining future threats in order to forestall them. The proposal was rejected by the Foreign Secretary, who regarded it as unlikely to succeed in its stated aims and very likely to distract from the more immediate threat posed by Facism.
There are no current grounds for concern, but as a major asset the clearance for AH should be revised biannually.
