phil, thanks for the guard schedules at the museum, i went in on friday
and laid low until after closing time. as planned the crate was delivered
to their yard on friday afternoon, too late for anyone to process it, and
the board was easy to detach from the base. excellent idea to make the
painting look like part of the box by the way - no-one was going to turn
it over to look if they didn't know it was there, and they were pretty
unlikely to be looking for someone to smuggle a painting in anyway.

access to the gallery was straightforward and it took around twenty
minutes to switch the copy with the original. i hid the painting among
a bunch of reproductions in the museum shop and camped out for the night
in the guards' bathroom. turns out they prefer to use the directors'
facilities up on the top floor. with the new exhibition opening on
saturday the place was busy enough to slip out first thing and, as
arranged, i made sure i was first into the shop. i now have the honour
of having bought the cheapest ever work by da vinci. or not.

the x-ray results came back this morning and, as you suspected, this is
one of sara's fakes. i am told it is close to perfect, but, hidden under
the layers of paint, she scribbled a picture of the nazi eagle emblem in
lead. she signed it s too. the tech guys think she may have used a bit of
old pipe like a crayon to deface the board before she started work on it.
anyway, that leaves the question of where the hell the real painting might
be. it's hard to believe that she left it with the ss and i can't see her
going on the run with it stuck under her coat. it's not like she could roll
it up.

i worked through some more of the nazi papers and found this note. at least
it tells us where she went. looks like the cipher clerk was back by the way.
i have moved on to venice to try to find any trace of sara there, but i have
a feeling the solution to this mystery is back in paris where it all began.
i left the painting at the paris office. maybe you could arrange to return
it? it should be easier to get it in than it was to extract it.

all the best,
harry
