Report on the loss of the Koh-I-Noor light-beam weapons facility
in Uttar Pradesh

The loss of the Koh-I-noor light-beam weapons facility in Uttar
Pradesh is a minor disruption in our plans. To reestablish the
Reich. Indeed, given the deaths of the incompetent Letzter and
Herz-Feuer in the initial blast, it could be seen as a golden
opportunity to refocus our ambitions on alternative-weapons systems
which offer greater potential. A proposal of this kind forms the
main and final recommendation of this report.

The destruction of the facility appears to have been achieved by
the combined efforts of the enemy agents known as Kholi, Charlie,
and Harry. We have been unable to identify their bodies in the
wreckage, as local investigators have hampered our access to the
site. Our previous good relations with the local officials have
been seriously damaged by their belief that we are to blame for
the accident. It is extremely fortunate that we have been able to
convince them that it was indeed an accident. In retrospect it may
have been an error in our initial dealings with them to try to
convince them that the incident was caused by inadequate work by
poor local contractors. The considerable damage to the facility
and somewhat lesser damage to local property was caused by the
destruction of control valves in the facility. The resulting flood
in the laboratory section of the facility destroyed records and
equipment, but the sound baffles we had built caught much of the
flow, and it was directed into the lower waters. In this we were
lucky. Many of our own agents and all of the local citizens escaped
death. On the other hand, with much of the facility surviving we
have had to work hard to conceal its true nature from the locals,
and having lost the support of the cult of the Koh-I-Noor, this has
been an expensive task. It is unlikely that we will be able to
reestablish a base in this region.

Of more concern, we note that Indian intelligence appears to have
been tracking our enemies, and this may have led to them infiltrating
our own operation here in India. It would be prudent to move our
main centre of operations, and we believe that South America would
provide a more convenient location.

The loss of the light-beam weapons research is disappointing, though
it is clear that this is still at a very early stage of development,
and we do not recommend further investment at this time. We believe
that if Salinen survived, then he will surface again shortly, and it
would be best to keep a watch on his laboratories. We may find a use
for him or his technology. Who knows what this strange laser may do.

In the meantime, we would suggest keeping an eye on Prof. Samuel
Cohen of the Rand Corporation. He is believed to be working on the
effects of radiation and may have been involved in the Manhattan
Project. It may be time to revive Die Alchemisten.

For the honour of the Reich,

Schwarze Schatten
