I did get another letter from Jodie and when I read it, I jumped on a plane to New Delhi. By the time I got there she had gone, and this time there was no forwarding address.
Everest's house, The Park, was deserted and shabby on the outside, but Jodie's message told me about the tunnel system and once I had uncovered the entrance at the South I found myself in a well maintained mine just like the one under Souter Point. It reminded me too of the cellar system under Trinity Wharf, both in terms of the layout and the quality of workmanship. It was clearly old, but still dry and clean, and according to Jodie they had temporarily stored the files from Trinity Wharf here, alongside the conspiracy archives. Now it was all gone, and only the marks on the floor showed where machines and racks of storage had stood for a hundred years.
When Jodie arrived, the last of the machines was being removed by Trinity's team and I don't know where they took it; all that was left by then was a printer and a computer terminal connected to the conspiracy's main data centre by their own secure network. The whole establishment was powered by a hydro-electric dam in the foothills. It had apparently been built by Edison, who was recruited by Mary Boole to power the foundation machine and the fifteen analytic engines that she installed at the base, and while it was relatively small by modern standards it must have seemed a miracle at the time. The computing power they had here was greater than anything the world had ever seen, but it was locked away from curious eyes, and they managed to keep it secret until now.
This time they did not leave a file by accident for me to find. Instead, Jodie printed a pile of documents for me to read and said it was up to me what I did with it. I still haven't broken the final page, which is attached, but I am hoping that it will answer the big questions: what was the conspiracy trying to do; why has Jodie joined it?
I haven't found her, but I haven't looked. She will surface if and when she wants to, and I am not sure what I will do when I find her. I have placed her on compassionate leave for now, hoping that the Boole file will explain what the conspiracy are up to and will clear her. I still can't believe that Agatha, Charlie, Trinity, and Jodie could have been part of something dark, and I live in expectation that we won't have to hunt her down.
The founders of this group were incredible women: Caroline Herschel, Ada Lovelace, Florence Nightingale and Mary Boole. They had a giant influence on the society they lived in, while overshadowed by the men who built machines. The thing they had in common was a love of mathematics and it seems this brought them to a common cause, but I still can't see what that was. It was clearly important enough for them to recruit others, including Babbage, Wheatstone, Faraday and Edison. For a conspiracy on this scale to remain undetected for even a short time is unusual. For it to persist through centuries is almost unbelievable. And for my friends to be involved is unthinkable. I choose to believe in them, at least for now, and will not stop until I have understood.
Harry
