life had been relatively dull since returning from my work with
harry in the middle east. the british library was delighted to
get its hands on the roman diary and the collector seemed to have
forgotten about me, maybe because harry's team made it too dangerous
to hang around. i was happy to settle back in to my work at the
library and was involved in a project to track down and catalogue
missing documents from the late nineteenth century. they detailed
foreign policy, which sounds dull, but with victoria taking an active
interest there were a lot of letters between downing street and the
palace and i was enjoying spying on famous characters from history.
i really felt like i was getting some insight into how they thought
and how the modern world came into being in that tumultuous period.

while i was mainly there to check the letters for authenticity, i
got really involved in trying to understand how they all fitted
together, and part of the job was to cross check statements in the
letters with what we know actually happened. there are a lot of
people who will pay a lot of money to own a letter from a royal,
so the archive is plagued with forgeries. some of them you can
detect by analysing the paper, others by the writing style. some
just fall over because the content is out of line with other
documents, but as i studied them i began to realise that a number
of them hinted at events that i couldn't find in the historical
record. certain names appeared and were clearly important, and
then disappeared completely from trace. diplomatic incidents were
mentioned that never happened according to the history books. one
thing you learn in this business is that the civil service never
lets any decision, however secret, go unrecorded. of course that
might just have meant those letters and documents were fake, but
i pride myself on being an excellent forger, and i would not have
been able to produce them. the paper was right, the ink was chemically
correct and aged just the right amount, and the style of writing was
totally convincing. and i was convinced. convinced that somewhere
there must be an archive of government documents from the period
that recorded all of these missing stories in full.

then i received the message about the shadow archive. someone else
knew about it, and had worked out that i was hunting for it too.
the postcard didn't help much, but the emails did. the first one had
the subject line jekyll and hyde and was encrypted using a simple
caesar shift to discourage casual interest. it didn't take me long
to crack it, and the names and details it contained matched the
growing list of mysterious references from my own research. douglas
black was clearly an important figure, and i had a feeling that he
had something to do with the archive. that feeling was confirmed by
the second email, black heart, that i received later that week. again
it was encrypted but this time using an affine shift cipher. it was
clearly from the same individual - at the very least whoever was
sending me the emails had a habit of missing the letter r from the
word "your".

someone was playing games with me, and i was more than happy to join in.
