Harry,

I put together a team of women from the computing division here
at Kennedy, and we have spent most of the last eighteen months
combing through mission files and computer print-outs looking for
more clues to the source of the oxygen-tank explosion onboard
Apollo XIII, and I think we have finally worked out what happened. The
tank containing the source of the explosion was originally installed
in Apollo X but removed for modification. During that process
it got dropped, so it was held back for further tests and a replacement
fitted for that flight. Once it had passed inspection the tank was
returned to service and earmarked for Odyssey. Further upgrades
were carried out to allow it to run off ground power during
fit-out at twice the space ship voltage, and the higher power was
used to boil off excess oxygen during ground tests. Unfortunately
it looks like the thermostatic switches in the tank were
overlooked during the voltage upgrade, and our best guess is
that they fused closed during the boil-off, allowing the temperature
to rise to over a thousand degrees. You might think the test engineers
would have noticed that, but since the tank operating temperature
was supposed to be somewhere well below zero, the dial only went
as far as plus eighty, so no one would have noticed operating that far
out of normal range.

It is a miracle the tank lasted as long as it did, and that adds
to the impression that this was a simple accident, a chain of
events that could not have been foreseen, but the computer files
tell a different story. We found two versions of the upgrade
report which was written to detail the procedures for modifying
the electrical system on the tank. The first gives a comprehensive
list of the cabling, switch gear, and control systems that needed
to be hardened for the ground-based voltage. It lists every
critical component except the thermostatic valves. This document
was filed in the service record, so we know it was the official
record, but the chief systems engineer who signed it off says
the signature on it is a bad copy of his own. We found identical
copies in several mission files, both in the manufacturer's records
and at Kennedy, where some of the tests were carried out, so it
is clear that this was the official version used in the upgrade.
The second version appeared to be the same document, but it included
the thermostatic valves on the list of components to be changed,
and the temperature gauge limits were circled several times
with an exclamation mark next to the eighty degree ceiling.
It looks like our saboteur deliberately arranged for the tank to
be misconfigured in an effort to cause trouble for the mission, although
we can't be sure they realised how dangerous this was. When we put
it together with all the other accidents it is pretty clear this was
another deliberate attack on the program.

We found the second version of the report in a box under the
floor boards in Mike's place. I suppose it is possible that
Mike had stumbled across the document himself and was investigating
it as part of his campaign to prove that the Russians were behind
this string of problems, but at the very least he is guilty of a
major misjudgement, and if the astronauts had died he would have
been tried for manslaughter. As it is, together with the leak
charges, he will be going to prison for a very long time. Of
course, the evidence is still largely circumstantial. We can
definitely tie him to the leak to the newspaper. Forensics matched
the typewriter ribbon and type characteristics on his typewriter
with the ink and impressions on the letter to the editor, but
we still cannot show conclusively that he directed or carried
out any of the sabotage attempts, and we have not been able to find
anyone else who had both motive and opportunity, so he is our best
suspect. I am not sure we can entirely relax, but with no significant
incidents on Apollo XIV to XVI, and with Mike in custody, I feel
slightly less worried about the remaining Apollo flight.

We are still trying to crack that other enciphered document we found in
Mike's place. It has a very strange alphabet which I think must be
significant, but I can't quite see how to break it yet. Now that the
NASA computing experts have more time, I am hoping that we should be
able to decipher it, and that it will shed some more light on Mike's
thinking. More importantly, it might tell us what else, if anything,
he had planned.

Meg
