the rebellion led by queen boudicca took strength from the defeat of the
ninth legion. the iceni were joined by the trinovantes tribe as they set
upon both londinium and verulamium. they razed the cities to the ground
and desecrated our temples. suetonius, informed by varus legatus of the
IX legion of the seriousness of the situation, returned from subduing
rebels on the island of mona and confronted the enemy at viroconium. as
he travelled back along watling street, in his own words, despite being
outnumbered ten to one, "the bravery and heroism of our forces and my
careful choice of the battleground and tactics ensured our decisive and
glorious victory." whoever masterminded the battle, the enemy lost many
thousands against just a few hundred of our own troops, and agricola was
left to secure the region. acting with ruthless efficiency, perhaps in
part to atone for his guilt over the previous loss, he supressed the
rebellion. boudicca, possessed of the perilousness of her situation, took
her own life, cursing the IXth legion as she died. but a battle is not a
war, and the true peril was about to be revealed. a captured enemy spy
revealed that they had been able to decipher captured battle orders and
communications which had been encrypted using the caesar cipher. this
device, invented by julius caesar himself, had secured military and
diplomatic communications across the empire for decades. it was no longer
safe, and neither were we. suetonius's despatches to the emperor were
careful to give himself the credit for the defeat of boudicca and left
no doubt that agricola was to blame for the uprising. the loss of the
legion's aquila was said to have encouraged the local tribes to rebel, and
it was hinted that agricola may also have been to blame for the loss of
the caesar cipher. what suetonius failed to reveal was that it was agricola
who engineered the defeat of the tribes on watling street, but if you wish
to know the truth of that day, then you will need to travel further to the
isle of thorns.
