TOP SECRET

Dear L and B,

This new RSA cipher is most ingenious. To understand the security of the
RSA, I have spent many hours labouring at the factorisation of the number
which B challenged us to factor. It is a devil of a job, and I have failed
miserably, which augers well for the security of RSA. Deciphering a message
without the prime factorisation of the public key will be a herculean task.

Of more immediate import, I believe I have found at last a method by which
the strength of the turning machine may be turned upon our enemies. While
the machine is capable of great secrecy in communications, its reliable
operation is dependant upon certain elementary precautions, which were not
documented in the designs, and these may well have escaped the attention of
its copiers. From L's very latest intelligence, it seems that the French
machine incorporates both the wheels and the reflector from our design.
While this provides the advantage that the turning machine can both encrypt
and decrypt a message from the same settings, I now realise that it also
incorporates a small weakness in the resulting cipher. By virtue of its
design, the reflector ensures that no letter is ever encrypted as itself.
As we recently noted, the ability to match a known fragment of plaintext
to the correct position in its ciphertext gives us much information about
the cipher used. Whilst the turning machine is far more sophisticated than
the Playfair cipher, if we could find a fragment of plaintext corresponding
to a given ciphertext, we might use this weakness to identify exactly which
part of the enciphered message matches the fragment. In this happy situation
it may be possible, using the ideas of the countess, to write instructions
for the analytic engine to emulate the turning machine, asking it to
encipher the fragement in all the possible ways, and matching these with
the known encryption. We may be able to identify which of the many possible
wirings for the rotors and reflectors the french have used. With this
knowledge, it should be possible to decrypt the rest of the ciphertext.
I now believe that finding an effective decipherment process is where we
should devote our efforts. It would provide a major benefit to Her Majesty's
government if the French were to rely on the security of a broken cipher for
their deepest secrets.

Yours, etc., W

P.S. I have enjoyed studying the fascinating case of Mr. Beale's lost
treasure. Mr. Beale's ingenious use of the Declaration of Independence
demonstrates that a simple idea for a cipher can render a very strong
encryption. I have my own idea for a variation on this method which would
pose a monumental task for those inclined to decipher it. Of course, it
would be a monumental disaster should the key be too easily discovered.
