Harry,

I don't think we are going to need to look far for our mole
and I cannot believe it has taken me this long to work it out. You
are right that a lot of staff here spent time in the UK either during
the war or working with the ballistic missile experts in their atomic
weapons program, but you don't easily pickup weird spelling
habits like that as an adult; you have to have been educated
there. There is just one person I have spoken to about all this who
comes from the UK, and that is Mike. I didn't realise at first -- his
accent is pretty good, since he has been here since the mid fifties,
but as soon as you told me to look out for someone British I realised
that the slight twang that I thought might be Bostonian was actually
the remnants of an English accent. I was also thrown by the fact
tha this son died in Korea, but I checked, and the Brits sent troops
to help us out in that conflict, and Mike's son was one of the RAF
aviators sent on exchange to the USAF. He died during a reconnaissance
mission, shot down by a Korean MiG, and the file shows that before
the carrier lost contact with his plane he reported hearing
Russian spoken over the radio channels used by the MiG pilots. Mike
came to the US for the funeral and never went back. He was married,
but I think his wife stayed in the UK; not all marriages can
survive something like that. Mike is still grieving, and I guess
it has driven him a little mad. I can see why he is so angry
about the possibility that the Russians are trying to sabotage
Apollo flights, and I guess he wanted to get the word out.

I am still a little puzzled, though. He might be boiling with rage,
and grief can make you do strange things, but I have tried to imagine
him writing it, and it just doesn't sound like him. I guess he was
trying to cover his tracks.

Another thing is bothering me, too. The call for a strike against
the Russians seems out of proportion, given the lack of hard
evidence we have that the Soviets are behind the attacks. Either
Mike knows something we don't, or he is prone to jumping to very
big conclusions on very little evidence, and that does not sound
like the profile of a NASA engineer to me. I wondered about getting
a warrant to check out his place to see if he has hidden anything
there, but judges take a dim view of fishing expeditions, so I
think I may need to be more devious. I could really do with having
him out of the way for a few days while I search his apartment and
make a few enquiries. Could you call him over to the Johnson Space
Centre in Texas? An alternative would be Huntsville, Alabama, but
I feel very uneasy about inviting him up there now that we know he
is a security risk.

If I find anything more I will let you know. Otherwise, I will
move back to the sabotage investigation like you asked.

Meg
