Harry,

We have a new mission for you and your team, and I think you are going to like it. Here is the background.

Last May a small container ship from Singapore disappeared off the port of Salalah. Last communications with the ship didn't suggest any problems but the Omani Coastguard lost track of it in a fog bank and after two days Coastguard cutters were sent out to search for it. They were joined in the hunt by a UK Naval destroyer on exercises, but, despite the pretty sophisticated equipment they carried, neither the ship nor wreckage were found. The local authorities added the ship to a list of potential piracy cases, but no ransom was demanded for the vessel. Last week the ship was found drifting, with no crew or passengers, near the location where it was last spotted. The ship was impounded and searched and the British Embassy were called in when they found a cabin full of UK sourced high tech comms gear. The Omani government assumed it was part of a UK listening op spying on them, but we pointed out that we wouldn't have abandoned the ship so close to a foreign power and we agreed to pool intelligence in an effort to trace the ship's movements and to figure out what it was doing there.

A full search revealed an extensive network of fast computers hidden behind fake bulkheads and cooled by seawater. They also found a high powered aerial giving weight to the Omani fears that this was a listening post. Strangely there were also some signs that part of the superstructure had been cut loose.

Most of the files on the server have been overwritten several times, but we did find one thumb drive containing an encrypted email archive and the local GCHQ team had some success decrypting a few of the messages. I'm not sure if this is good news or bad, but it appears that this ship was being used by the Flag Day Associates.

Hackers with their own Navy is a new one on me - I have no idea why they would want or need one. We are going to need your help to figure out what this means. I tried to get hold of Charlie in the hope that she would help, but she has gone off grid so I hope you and your team are available.

All the best,

Mark
