Charlie, it was the typo in "Ratilines" that gave it away. It appeared both in the typed messages we picked up and in the transcript of the radio message. Pretty unlikely coincidence so I figure your "junior cipher clerk" was involved. Might be worth checking her background and bank accounts. That is all I meant when I said the source was close to home, but thinking about it I am not sure it makes sense to think she was the source. The messages still keep coming and I am guessing that she has gone, so there must be some other source for our intelligence. Something is bothering me about the tone of the messages. Why does our antagonist keep taunting us about our allies. It is not like the things we are being asked to bid for are things we are likely to hide from one another after all. Anyway I followed one of our French colleagues to Friedrichstrasse and watched her try to pick up the key from locker 157. Seems to have been a con. I couldn’t clearly see what was going on but she didn't seem to be able to open locker 157 and left, obviously upset. After she had gone I took a look at locker 159. It has a false back so I am guessing the money was taken but nothing provided in exchange. Could you dig around with your contacts in the British and Russian Embassies and see if they are getting the same sort of communications? Maybe you could warn them.

By the way "Die Alchemisten project" was the code name for the Nazi atom bomb effort. I had a run in with them during the war when we were trying to keep their hands off the heavy water supply. Remember the bombing in Vemork? That was us, or rather our Nordic allies. Anyway it is still top secret so the fact our protagonist knows about it is significant. I suspect the key to this whole mystery lies in their identity. If we knew who they were working for we might be able to figure out what they are up to.

One last thing. Acting on a hunch I took a look at some of the French dead-drops after the Friedrichstrasse incident and found the attached communication. I haven't had time to crack it, but I think it may be a Vigenere again, but I haven't had a chance to try Babbage's trick on it yet. Give it to your black chamber and see what they can make of it.

All the best, Harry
