Report on the Koh I Noor Twin project
Top Secret

In fifty-one we were alerted to the work of American physicists Townes
Gordon and Zeiger on stimulated emission of microwave radiation. Our
spies at their Columbia labs obtained access to the notebooks describing
their experiments and delivered these to our organisation in Dehli.

HQ decided to mount an operation to build a test system capable of
overwhelming radar transmissions. Early calculations suggested that a
more powerful beamed-energy weapon could be built on the same principles
if we could find a medium that would transmit heat and light with high
efficiency with properties that would allow us to raise the energy of
electrons within it. Such a material could allow for a light-powered
system code-named Taschenlampe. It was proposed that translucent
materials formed from a crystal would be the ideal medium. Diamond
would be best but it was recognised that obtaining gems of the right
quality and size would be difficult.

At around the same time our agents in Uttar Pradesh made contact with
members of the ancient cult known as the Cult of the Koh I Noor twins.
The cult had long guarded the secret of a pair of precious gems of the
highest quality. It was their belief that whoever possessed both diamonds
would rule the world, and they had worked for some time to prevent them
from falling into the wrong hands. Koh I noor itself had been given to
the Empress Victoria to keep it safe while the twin was held in secret
in India.

A faction within the cult was plotting to reunite the gems for its own
purposes and we assigned agents Letzter and Herz-Feuer to exploit this
fact. The Koh I Noor twins were reunited at our laboratories in Uttar
Pradesh where experiments began on the construction of the new weapon
system. The diamonds worked better than we could have hoped. They
transmit heat and light with supreme efficiency, and our scientists
believe that they can be used to build a directed-energy weapon of
great and terrifying power. Such a device mounted upon a battleship
would form a devastating weapon that could down an aircraft or sink an
aircraft carrier from a range of many miles.

Work continues on the project though it has been disturbed by the
activities of enemy agents. We are particularly concerned by the
interference caused by the activities of a young English woman known
as Charlie. Her collaborator Kholi has been detained at our facility
in Uttar Pradesh, but we have lost track of her and her colleague,
the American agent Harry. It is of utmost importance that they are
found and eliminated.
