Jodie,
Following up on your last message I thought I should send you the attached. It is a letter from Maisie to the Providence branch of Pinkerton's, sent via wireless in reply to a report which I have been unable to locate.
Reading between the lines, I think we can assume that Maisie had commissioned further investigations following receipt of the report on Isles, and that she was continuing to fund the enquiry, though I am not sure how she managed that on a Librarian's salary. Pinkerton's must have believed that she was good for her debt as there is a file full of encrypted communications between them both, following up on this letter, and I think we will be busy breaking those ciphers over the next few weeks.
The Morse slowed me down, but I eventually managed to crack the cipher underneath the code, and I can promise that you will find the contents interesting.
Maisie spelled out what she thought might have been going on, but I wonder if she was missing something important. She hinted at it in the phrase "I was shocked to hear about the situation of my employer", though she does not expand on that, nor does she follow that thought to its natural conclusion.
Having carried out my own enquiries with contemporary bank records it is clear that the situation she referred to is the financial difficulty that Rogers mentioned in our earlier files. His ambition was much larger than his budget, and it occurs to me that perhaps the reason for the valuation and the new policy was to allow him to stage a theft. If he was in league with Isles, then he may have planned to sell some of the more valuable items from the Library at a knock down price to the Alresford dealers and to claim on the insurance. This would allow him to pay off his debts and to fund his campaign.
You might object that he could have achieved more or less the same outcome by selling the books at face value but having boasted for some time about the treasures Maisie had acquired for him it would have been intensely embarrassing to gift only the lower valued parts of the collection to the City. There was also the risk that buyers would have been alerted to his need to sell, and that the resulting price would have been lower than the insurance valuation.
It would certainly have been a dangerous strategy, but perhaps the risk was worth taking. The Rhode Island electorate were not much given to voting for bankrupts, especially those whose debts were accumulated at the card table.
Of course, if Rogers was behind a scheme to defraud the insurers, then it is strange that he wanted the robbery investigation ended. But remember that no books were actually stolen, so no significant claim could arise. With no possible gain it makes sense that he would want the whole sorry affair forgotten. Further investigation might easily have brought his role in the theft to light, permanently spoiling his election chances and perhaps even leading to a spell of incarceration.
I look forward to hearing your thoughts these idle speculations. I am enjoying my holiday!
Best wishes,
Harry
