charlie and trinity,

i think we have come as close as we can to a solution to this very odd
case of a dead woman who never died, a weapon that never existed, and a
government initiative that had nothing to do with the government. martin
and jamelia were put in a terrible position. i hadn't realised just how
bad until i read the attached document that i recovered from martin's and
jamelia's hard drive. it tells the whole story. the syndicate probably
thought they were being clever when they faked jamelia's death. there was
a clear threat that once her death was recorded as suicide they could
dispose of her in their own way and in their own time if she failed to
cooperate. what they failed to realise is that once she was officially
dead, no one would be looking out for her, and it made it a lot easier
for her to disappear when she wanted to. having been cut loose from the
government, the syndicate were relying on sources in the international
intelligence community to carry out surveillance for them, but no one
would be watching for a ghost, and too many questions would have been
asked if they requested a search once she was officially dead.

i think that dynamix realised early on what the template approach could
do for large-scale network analysis, and they realised that jamelia had
the talent and martin the ambition to make it work. as a small company,
they had nothing to lose by investing in it, but when citadelle heard
rumours that they were working on something big, they realised that this
could be the breakthrough they needed. their massive investment in
conventional battlefield weaponry threatened to become obsolete on the
cyber battlefield, and they were searching for something new to revitalise
the company. at first i think they genuinely misunderstood what dynamix
were working on. the confusion between gravity waves and gravitational
waves led everyone to assume that dynamix were hoping to weaponize seismic
activity, perhaps via a resonance effect.

but this was never about a weapon of mass destruction, as jamelia's exposé
makes clear. i am not sure at what point the post-digital surveillance
syndicate got involved. they were initially set up to prepare for a time
when digital surveillance is no longer effective: a quantum-technologies
environment in which the content of communications is encrypted so securely
that no algorithm can crack it without betraying its presence. they were
keeping a close eye on all the software development teams at arms
manufacturers and had kept jamelia and martin under observation. when
working for dynamix, they were certainly quick to realise the potential
of the signal/noise analysis techniques the pair had developed for
gravitational-wave detection. at some point, though, someone realised the
fundamental flaw in using a template-based approach, which in a better
world would have led to the end of the project. unfortunately, some evil
genius at the syndicate saw a solution, and, given the obvious limits on
government action in this sphere, they decided to leverage private-sector
involvement. given their hunger for relevance, citadelle were an obvious
target and were brought into the picture. unfortunately for the syndicate,
someone at citadelle blabbed to a senior civil servant, and the whole
operation was terminated. the junior operatives were dispersed among other
departments, but the major players were retired. we now know that the
remains of the syndicate continued to operate with citadelle and dynamix,
funding a government department no longer.

i was thrown by martin's call to the phone linked to citadelle during the
interview last week, and for a moment thought that he was working with them,
but of course he was not phoning citadelle. if we track the phone, we will
find jamelia. with no real resources of their own, she and martin seems to
have played the black-hats at their own game, taking what they need as they
prepared to double-cross them.

you might ask why she is not making more of an effort to hide from the
syndicate, and its allies, but that is the beauty of the way they have
this set up. martin's time with the collective has been spent seeding
copies of the file onto every server he could find. if anything happened
to them now, it would be impossible for the syndicate, dynamix, or citadelle
to suppress the information. it would flood the web. their apparent
carelessness, weak encryption, and poorly hidden documents, martin's
appearance on bank surveillance cameras, and his visibility on the web
were all part of a scheme to ensure the authorities got suspicious, a sort
of insurance policy. it forced the syndicate to protect them, hence the
high-quality travel documents. to get real protection, jamelia had to make
sure their story couldn't be squashed, so they had to buy time. she and
martin agreed to work with the syndicate and to conspire in jamelia's faked
death, and i think they convinced the syndicate to let martin join the
hacker collective by presenting it as a good cover for data collection,
arguing that they needed to set the baseline for the behavioural templates.

but now the big question: do we go public? if we do, it will lance the boil,
and we have a real chance of bringing down the syndicate and its
collaborators in several major arms manufacturers. we might also be able to
trace the template targets. on the other hand, if we do that, we also risk
killing jamelia and martin. once the story is public, there is no reason
for the pds syndicate to keep them alive, and every reason to silence
witnesses. i don't know what you think, but i think we need to deal with
this offline--the old-fashioned way.
