Mission Briefing 7A: Jodie's diary

We found the attached message hidden in the underlying code of an image sent in junk mail to people at the US embassy. It might have slipped past us, but luckily, Harry and I had already figured out that they might try to communicate this way. The conspiracy had avoided detection for over a century, so they were unlikely to make the mistake of sending messages explicitly addressed to one another. It is always best not to make links between members of a network and a well-hidden message in junk mail avoids that risk, especially if it is widely distributed by one of the bot networks, like this one.
I was too focussed on the decrypt at first and wasn't reading what it said until I found her name staring back at me at the end. Perhaps we should have already realised that Trinity could be involved, but it never occurred to me that her name was anything other than a coincidence. The fact she's Charlie's niece should have lit up the lights on the dashboard though and I am worried that Harry didn't raise it. Perhaps he is already shadowing her, and didn't like to say so out of loyalty, but he didn't tell me that, and somehow, I think he would. I think it's more likely that she's beyond suspicion in his mind. She has played an important role in his network for fourteen years, and the fact that she might be a double agent will be a real blow.
That was bad, but it wasn't the worst of it. The detail Trinity gives on the conspiracy's recent activities is truly frightening. What could they want at the heart of the pandemic response groups? Surely they can't have been responsible for the outbreak? And what were they doing at COP? I desperately want to take this to Harry, to talk to him about it, but the final paragraph stopped me in my tracks. Why on earth does Trinity think I might join them? What have I said or done that would make them think I could be a traitor? And will that make Harry distrust me too? I'm not sure I can take that risk. I might have to finish this mission alone.
