Dear Ms Frank,
I am not sure that you have understood the seriousness of your situation. Fortunately, Ms Smith does seem to have grasped that, and she assures me that you can be persuaded too. I hope that is correct. For the time being she will enjoy our hospitality, but it is possible for any guest to outstay their welcome, and we would not want that to happen here.
In our last call, you asked me what I wanted, and I have tried to make that clear. I want nothing. I want all this to go away and for you to forget that any of it happened. I would like unhindered access to the vault on one more occasion, with no interference from you or from anyone else.
You know by now that there is nothing of value to you in the deposit boxes, but that I and my colleagues hold them in almost sacred regard, and we do not appreciate you meddling in our affairs.
It is unfortunate that you chose to interfere in such a public way. We are still a little unclear what you hoped to achieve; our background checks on Ms Cifrar told us precisely nothing, either about her, or your plans. But that in a sense told us everything. It is difficult to be as much a cipher as Jade appears to be in our modern interconnected world, and I suspect she has been trained by at least one of the national security agencies. If so, it was a mistake for you to hire her. She is very unlikely to have severed all ties with her employer and there is a very real risk that you will find one or more of the agencies taking a special interest in your affairs. Given the unorthodox nature of your investigation into my organisation I suspect that they may find that you have been engaged in other activities that are not covered by your employment agreement. Even if there are none to find now, rest assured that we are quite capable of planting something incriminating for your government to find.
Let me reiterate: Ms Strong is in good health and good hands. Her welfare is secure for as long as you resist the urge to talk to the police or to contact Ms Cifrar or her colleague Harry. Your own interests will also be served by this. Our only demand is for you to restore our access to the vault and to ensure that my agents are not inconvenienced in any way while they carry out some final housekeeping on the contents.
I hope you will find my demands reasonable and that we can avoid any further unpleasantness.
Yours
Benjamin Tallmadge
