Harry,

Mike has turned out to be really useful. Following his report to you
about the Apollo XI near miss he has turned up a number of other
computer reports hinting at possible sabotage attempts on VIII through
XII. Some of them we already knew about--the guidance problems with
Apollo X, and the programme alarms and descent trajectory problems
on XI--but he also showed me some files from the building and maintenance
logs for the future Apollo fleet and pointed out some worrying lapses.
In particular, there is a gap in the records of the Apollo XIII service
module, so we are running a few checks before assembly to make sure
everything is okay before launch. My first instinct was to place
everything on hold while we tracked down the saboteur, but the whole
building launch process is a fine-tuned machine, and I am worried that
if we disrupt it then we might cause more problems. In particular, it
will be easier to detect unexpected behaviour if we know exactly
what to expect.

Mike is really worried that the soviets could have infiltrated the
program. He has never forgiven them for the death of his son who was
shot down by a MIG over the Korean peninsula. I am hoping that his
grief will drive him to help us get to the bottom of this mystery.

For now, we have another problem: My team at Langley were tipped
off by a journalist at the New York Post about an encrypted letter
sent to the news desk there. It came with a cover note which said that
the cipher key would be published in the wanted ads, but there are a
lot of those spread over hundreds of newspapers, and the editor didn't
want to devote hours of staff time to tracking down the advert. I
think he assumed it was just another crackpot attention seeker, but
just in case he asked the journalist to try breaking the cipher herself.
She recognised it as a Vigenere cipher but it came with a little twist
that she could not figure out, so she sent it to someone she knew in
the CIA. Once they cracked it, they realised what it was and sent it
on to me. The letter contains details of some of the events we have
been investigating and blames the soviets for them. It would have
been dynamite if it had been published, so it is just as well we were
able to stop it at source. The journalist was persuaded to tell her
boss that the cipher couldn't be cracked, but in exchange we owe her
an exclusive at the end of all of this.

All the best,
Meg
