Mission Briefing 5A: Derailed

Jodie,
I can see why you are concerned, but I find it hard to believe that Agatha could have been part of a conspiracy. She was a faithful colleague in all the time I worked with her, and no-one ever suggested otherwise. Of course we ran the usual spot checks from time to time, but nothing unusual was found. Having said that, the message you found in the archive is really worrying. My first thought was that she might have been acting as a double agent, trying to destabilise Nazi intelligence, but that doesn't fit with the text: "it is crucial to our mission that we maintain the balance of uncertainty", and "direct it to our advantage" make it look like she had definitely had another agenda.
I trawled through my own records to see if anyone else Agatha and I worked with might have been involved. I hate to say it, but the only person of interest at the moment is Charlie. We worked together on the Koh I Noor Twins case, and Agatha was her great aunt. Not that treachery is a genetic trait, but in vetting circles it can be treated like it is inherited, so I suppose we ought to take that seriously, especially since she became pretty senior in American intelligence.
I checked our current case files, and although she is retired she still acts as government liaison. She is in London at the moment in the new Embassy building, which will make it difficult to get hold of her if she wants to stay hidden. We can't afford to upset our US cousins, and if we are wrong about her we might also poison the well when it comes to intelligence exchange. They haven't forgiven us for Philby and Maclean yet, so I can imagine how they would react if it turns out that one of our own is a double agent and has infiltrated their inner sanctum.
I sent one of the Elves to take a look at her apartment in New Jersey. It was pretty clean as you can imagine, but they were able to lift the following extract. It was hard to read, and even harder to decipher since she used a Vigenere encryption, but one incriminating feature stands out even without a decrypt. She used the AD morse encoding on top of the Vigenere cipher.
I am not sure what we should do next. Could you get the team to take a look at the file? Maybe this is all a big coincidence, or a misunderstanding. If not then we may have to tell London and Washington, and I am really not looking forward to that.
All the best,
Harry
