Report for Miss Maisie Styles
The library
Our agents have completed their enquiries and are now in a position to report their findings. They are summarised below.
We would be happy to take further instructions. If you prefer to terminate the investigation now, then we would be grateful to receive notification so that we can settle your account.
a) The body was that of a young man, approximately twenty-three years old, with blond hair and a distinctive scar on his left cheek. No members of the household reported knowing or having any recollection of meeting with him.
b) He carried no papers so it was not possible to establish his identity at that stage of the enquiry with any certainty, although the style of his shoes and the marque of his pocket watch were European, suggesting that he was well travelled.
c) Enquiries at the local carriage company yielded the information that he had arrived on a coach from New York the day before his body was discovered.
d) His image was not in our Rogues Gallery, but we added the description and circulated it to our New York office.
e) Aided by the distinctive nature of the young man's appearance our agents were able to follow his trail back to Ellis Island, where he had arrived on the SS Paris, a ship carrying nearly two hundred passengers from Southampton, England.
f) The cabin staff recall our passenger as rather reclusive, suffering from sickness for much of the voyage.
g) Records from the shipping company show that he travelled under the name Stanley Isles, and that his passage had been paid for by a bookshop in the small Hampshire village of Alresford.
h) Isles was not known to the local constabulary, but the bookshop was of minor interest, as besides a small but profitable trade in incunabula it was also suspected of trading in items with a more dubious provenance.
i) We were unable to investigate our subject further without alerting the bookseller to our interest, so, for now, we have paused the enquiry.
j) If you have any reason to believe that the book found next to the body had particular value, or that your collection includes items which might have attracted the attention of international book smugglers, then it might be worth extending the investigation to cover the booksellers, but the evidence we have gathered so far is only circumstantial, and the costs of further enquiries could be substantial.
