It is with regret that I will have to close the Culpeper communications facility. While it has proved extremely useful, Anna Smith's actions have exposed it to too much scrutiny and we will need to make other arrangements.
I have written a report on the operation of the old pointer code, and I will post it shortly. Given the nature of the contents of that document I will use our highest-level cipher to encrypt it. Circulation will be restricted to the Curia and to those in our communications department who will be charged with designing the new system to replace it.
There is still a small risk, but I think only a small risk, that the code will be discovered by Ms Cifrar and her colleague. Perhaps we were careless in our choice of cover names; if they make the connection between Culpeper and the Culper ring then they might be able to see how our system worked. To forestall that I have arranged for final access to the vault to allow us to reset it. That should remove any evidence of the nature of the system. Even if they suspect the way in which it has been used, there will be no evidence to prove it.
I would be less concerned if I knew where to find Jodie Cifrar and her colleague Harry, but we lost track of them when they stopped carrying cell phones. It is possible that they have followed me to Langley, although I have been very careful to monitor my environment and, in any case, the security team at the headquarters will be watching for trackers and trails.
Anna Smith remains comfortable and safe, andonce I have completed the housekeeping at the bank, I will return her to Culpeper. I think I have managed to impress on her, and on her colleague Lynn Frank, the risks of interfering further. I considered showing them my CIA card in the hope of convincing them both that this was a government operation, but I would prefer not to reveal my official identity. There remains a risk that my activities would be mentioned by them to other security agencies. As bankers they are in regular contact with the Federal Reserve and that organisation might carry out checks if my name is flagged up. Perhaps it is better to leave Ms Smith and Ms Frank unsure of my identity. Whatever they believe, I think I have managed to convince them of the seriousness of their situation.
Sincerely yours,
Abraham Woodhull
