My name is Benjamin Wood and I work for the CIA. For the last fifteen years I have been running a private data brokerage under the pseudonym Benjamin Tallmadge, buying and selling secrets on the open market. This confession is given freely and without duress.
In Culper's early years we used online communication to trade intelligence, but with the increased surveillance from private and government agencies, we decided to return to more traditional means of tradecraft and developed the Culpeper system.
While unsuited to long form data transmission, it allowed us to pass short messages within our network, establishing dead drop locations and schedules, and distributing cipher keys, warnings, offers and bids to members of the consortium.
The system used an updated and amended version of the Culper code book introduced by George Washington, in which numbers stand for common words. The original Culper code book consisted of a dictionary of seven hundred and sixty-three words, and we amended it to modernise the lexicon, including an updated list of rendezvous locations across the region.
The numbers are encoded in binary, rendered using traditional Chinese lettering, to look like a design feature. Numbers from nought to five hundred and eleven are drawn using nine characters read bottom to top and right to left, with a simple border to indicate that the number is complete. The remaining numbers are rendered in the same way, with the absence of the border indicating the presence of a leading one in the tenth digit.
The numbers act both as content and as pointers, in the following way: the first word of the message is converted to a number by lookup and affixed in an agreed starting place in the vault. Typically, the initial box is determined by the sum of the day and month on which the message was posted. When informing a recipient that there was a message to read, we would send the target date and that would tell them which box to open first.
Opening that box would reveal the first number in the code, placed there on the previous visit by a member of the ring. The paper linings are affixed using a post-it note style glue, so they are easy to insert and remove.
As well as signifying the first word of the message, the number also signals the location of the second word in the message. Opening the corresponding box reveals the number for the second word and the location of the third. The message is read until the final pointer, which for historic reasons is always seven two two.
Curiously, no-one ever noticed that the boxes were keyed so that any of the keys could open any of the boxes, which meant that whichever box was accessed, all of them could be opened.
Once read, the message numbers need to be restored to their standard locations, which appears to be a random assignment of the numbers to boxes. This helped to disguise the nature of the system in case bank inspectors ever asked questions. That operation is carried out by the Chief teller, Anna Strong, who has been in the pay of our consortium from the beginning.
The true nature of our operations and of the communication system were kept secret from Anna, but unfortunately, she became greedy and suspicious, and started asking too many questions. When I refused to answer them, she staged the break in as an excuse to hire Jodie to investigate. Unfortunately for Anna, I knew Jodie's reputation from her work with the agency, so I figured out what was going on. Anna was trying to take over the network.
When I tried to scare her off, she staged her own disappearance in order to trigger further investigation and to convince me to buy her silence. I decided to use the situation to put pressure on Ms Frank to give me and my colleagues an opportunity to strip out the comms system. I had already offered Ms Strong a significant pay off to return to the bank and forget about the whole venture, but she wanted more. She would have been well advised to accept it. Perhaps our destinies would have been different if she had.
