the shame of my esteemed and noble kinsmen gnaeus julius agricola is a story
too often told in the taverns of rome for the entertainment of fools and
cowards who never once left the safety of that great city. the loss of the
IXth legion's standard in battle haunted him throughout his life and only
his untimely death brought him relief, and yet the full depth of his suffering
is known only to a few, and even i was not taken into his confidence until
after his death. the truth of the peril in which he placed the entire roman
army was finally revealed to me in the papers he left to me in his will.
among them i found this despatch from sextus varus legatus of the IXth legion
to gaius suetonius paullinus, proconsul and governor of britannia, describing
the defeat of the ninth at camulodonum. at the writing of this message, the
iceni have successfully sacked the city, including the temple of claudius,
where the procurator's guard took their heroic final stand. we were almost
encircled by the enemy force, who seemed possessed of the power to know our
thoughts. where we were strong they posted only holding forces, where we were
weak they attacked in strength, and when reinforcements attempted to join us,
they were attacked on route. we survivors owe our lives and our thanks to
gnaeus julius agricola, who in a time of great emergency recognised the
strategy of the insurgent forces on our left flank and commanded our retreat
with moments to spare. due to this action, the majority of our cavalry were
saved, along with the reserve forces. all other front-line troops have been
slaughtered, and it is with great sadness and deepest anger i have to report
that the IXth legion lost its aquila to the enemy. i fear that if we are to
save londinium and verulanium from a similar fate, we must find the strength
to crush this rebellion. if we fail, then all of britannia is lost. this much
of agricola's story is widely known, but the full truth must remain hidden
for now, and as remarked by my trusted slave and confidant, tiro, what better
place to hide a book than among books.
