Harry,

This is where things get complicated. Naval Intelligence
have given us a go to intercept the beacon, but now
they want us to capture the weather station cipher
machine as well. It's a Fialka mark I. I talked with
our marines and we figured the following plan, but we
need you to make it work. You are the only one on the
sub who is able to identify the Fialka and we want you to
board the weather station covertly and gather all the
intelligence on it that you can. Naval intelligence want
photos, wiring diagrams and settings if you can get
them, but they don't want the other side to know you've
got them. With luck our marines will cut out the Soviet
troops and capture the beacon as well, but in any case I
am told by the higher-ups that the Fialka is just as
important. What do you think? Of course the weather
station is guarded but the Soviets think we are after the
beacon and we can use that to our advantage. We
surfaced late last night and left a raiding party
(codenamed Wolf) on the ice pack close to the expected
route of the beacon. We will surface again to the south of
the Lomonosov weather ship and send another raiding
party codenamed Fox round to the north to track them.
Once the beacon is under way Fox will act as recon and
radio the Soviet route to Wolf. Together they will launch a
pincer attack just less than midway to the edge of the
icepack. The soviet commandos are almost certain to call
the weather station for backup and this will leave it
unguarded. The Michael 5 will head fast and loud in a line
to intercept the Soviet troops at the edge of the ice pack
in the hope of drawing the Leninsky Komosomov off
station. I can lose them in the shallow channels to the
west and we will then run quietly back to pick you up.
You may need to spend a night or two on the ice but we
can give you a Marine guard. Fox and Wolf will fade to
the East and wait for a pickup, with or without the beacon.

We intercepted the enclosed message from Soviet Naval
command. The cipher guys said to tell you it is an
interesting twist on an old European cipher. Latin
Five they called it.
