Dear Jodie,
How did the trainees get on? I assume they cracked the ciphers, but perhaps they struggled with what the letter told them. You need to know quite a bit about the US to understand what was going on.
My own reading is that the owner of the library where the body was found was planning on mounting a campaign to get elected as governor of the state but was worried that any scandal might undermine his chances. He seems to have been on good terms with the local Chief of Police, and since that is also an elected position, they will have both understood what was at stake.
I dug around and found that the chief, Tom Harper, had a reputation as an honest man, but his judgement might have been influenced by his friendship with Rogers, and the fact that the police were reluctant to investigate might have had more to do with manpower shortages than any undue influence. I checked their archives and there is some evidence that Harper carried out quiet enquiries of his own, perhaps after he received the letter from Rogers. I wondered if that was due diligence, but it might also be because he received a strange letter from a local doctor who seemed to have been assisting the Librarian, Maisie Styles, with her own investigation into the case. I am still unsure why she was involved. She worked in Rogers' household and was the one who found the body, but it does seem a little above her pay grade to be launching an investigation into the circumstances of the death. The current owner of the house remembers her grandfather talking about Miss Maisie in fond tones. She worked here until she was no longer able to do so and was a diligent Librarian who built the collection from good to great. (It is still excellent, and I have not had time to start a crossword OR a sudoku since I discovered it!)
Perhaps she was upset that someone had broken the sanctity of her domain and just wanted to understand why. She must have been worried about the security of the collection and it would have been frustrating that the police did not appear very interested. She seems to have asked the local doctor Maurice White to investigate the volume found in the deceased's grasp; given his findings, that was a good call. I am not sure what his letter tells us, but once you have broken the encryption on it perhaps you can let me know what you think.
I hope you didn't mind me encrypting this note. I thought you and the trainees might enjoy breaking it. It is good practice for the letter from Dr Maurice White MD!
All the best,
Harry
