Mission Briefing 4A: The Vault

Harry, I am back. I spent most of the last two weeks in The Vault trying to unpack some of the mystery surrounding the lighthouse conspiracy crew and I think I made some progress.
While I was away, the trainees tackled the letter from ABC, and they did a great job. They are shaping up well, I think we will be glad of their help as this case progresses.
The Librarian at The Vault was very helpful and when I told her what I was looking for she pointed me to an archive of Victorian papers concerning scientists, engineers and social reformers that had recorded early background investigations into "People of Interest". I say people, but I did notice that there was a heavy bias to investigating women back then. I was surprised at first, I had assumed that they would have been largely ignored, but I suppose these remarkable women made their presence known, and perhaps the establishment felt threatened. In most cases there are no standard security files for these women, but where there were, they were at best thin. The really interesting material was in the hidden archive where I found reports and papers about Lovelace, Nightingale and ABC. As establishment figures themselves, they seem to have been ignored by the Secret Service, and clearly not considered a security threat, but our BOSS forebears did carry out investigations into their activities and there are clear signs that they may have worked together.
Obviously the fact that they were making such an impact on society was enough to make some people nervous. After all, it was a time of great change, and concerns about revolution were very real. One of the notes on file suggests that the growing campaign for women's suffrage and social activism might have been the start of an insurrection, and it named several of our protagonists, but it didn't say how they might have intended to trigger the uprising.
What we have seen so far is that whatever the Lighthouse Conspiracy were up to they went to extraordinary lengths to keep it secret, and the fact that we are only now uncovering it suggests that it was much subtler than a planned uprising.
I am still struggling with the idea that people who were part of the birth of BOSS could have been acting secretly against us, but that is certainly implied by some of the files we have cracked, and the attached document has added to my worries.
It was written in the aftermath of the Hindenburg disaster, by someone I think you knew well. She had a fantastic record working deep undercover and reporting back to western intelligence agencies, but the thing that caught my eye was that here she used the codename AUGUSTA. I don't know if you already spotted it, but the lettering around the edge of the lighthouse stamp reads AD AAD DDA AAD AAA D AD and substituting the A and D for dot and dash spells out her codename. I thought at first that I might be reading too much into it. The letter in her file seems never to have been broken. Someone wrote "double encrypted?" on the envelope and I guess that was enough to dissuade the agencies from spending much time on it. With hindsight, it is pretty obvious that actually it has just been encrypted once and then encoded as Morse code using the same convention A equals dot, D equals dash. Once that had been untangled I found it pretty easy to break, and I am very worried about what I found. I think you need to take a look.
Jodie
