To the Pinkerton's field office, Providence, RI
Let me start by thanking you for agreeing to continue with the investigation to this point, and for forwarding your findings. I was shocked to hear about the situation of my employer, but not that surprised to read of his ambition to serve as Governor of our State. That has been an open secret in the household for some time, though I had not realised that he was intending to stand for the office when it next became vacant. In my mind, his ambition was more akin to desire, and I think many of us assumed that he would either fall into the post or that it would pass him by. It did not occur to me that he would take active steps to try to sway the electorate, and I had certainly not considered that he might offer our marvellous collection to the new Providence library in order to buy influence and support. He has not discussed it with me, though I should have guessed that something was afoot when he asked me to help value the books for an insurance policy. We have been covered for fire, and in general for theft, since before I joined the household, but as I have acquired several very precious texts in recent years, it seemed natural for them to be added to the policy. I did not think to question why it was necessary to revalue the whole collection, but I suppose that this might have formed part of the discussions between him and the City officials.
All of this makes sense but does not explain the presence of Mr. Isles in my library that morning. You have suggested that he might have been stealing or intending to steal items from me, but you have not said how he knew that we held them. My understanding is that the booksellers who paid for his passage specialise in procuring specific rare items of incunabula for collectors on a commission basis. For them to have sent Mr. Isles across the ocean suggests that they knew already which items we held here, and I can assure you that only a few people have access to our catalog.
Is it possible that Mr. Rogers gave access to the catalog to the City Fathers to impress upon them the high value of the gift he was making? Could one of them have been in conspiracy with the Alresford company to make off with some of our more valuable items? Or is it possible that one of the household could have been intending to profit? The presence of the insurance valuers was not something we advertised, but in a small community like ours, it would not have been a secret, and it may have encouraged larcenous thoughts.
If you have any suggestions for furthering our enquiries, I would be most pleased to hear them.
Yours faithfully,
Ms M Styles
