Harry,

You'll already have heard that the Nazi base blew up. The news spread like
wildfire, and I'm pretty sure you and your contacts in the cult must have had
something to do with that. In any case, the fuss over the damage to local
farms was enough for Kholi to smuggle us across the northern frontier
unnoticed.

There was a slight hitch, though - the fuses you provided were duds! We were
double-crossed by your source, whoever that was, but it didn't matter. Kholi and
I persuaded Salinen to pretend to cooperate with the Nazi sympathisers in order
to get access to a lab, and we improvised some of our own brand of detonators.
We planted the barrels in the valve rooms controlling the flow through the dam,
and blew just enough to take out the labs. We had originally hoped to retrieve
the stolen American lab notes but the damage was so severe we have no way of
telling whether the papers were removed from the labs beforehand or not. Anyway
Kholi is confident that no one would have anticipated the need to store them
elsewhere and I’m happy to trust his judgment for now. But if you ever find
anything!

There is only one problem remaining we took out a Nazi courier on the way
back and intercepted the enclosed communique. I have no idea what it says - it
seems to be encrypted using a stream cipher. He was carrying a deck of cards
wrapped in a scrap of paper with some words on it, so I figure it is encrypted
using the Solitaire cipher like the one Die Alchemisten used back in the war.
Aggie told me about that. If I am right then the order of the deck gives the
key, but unfortunately the cards and the paper got a bit charred during the
encounter (dont ask) and I only managed to read the top half of the deck. I
laid them out and took a picture and have attached it in the envelope marked
"Anyone for cards?" It seemed fitting.

We have made our way back to London, and Salinen is currently being debriefed at
the US embassy.

Salinen has an idea to use X-ray machines to try to see the print under the fire
damage on the rest of the playing cards, but we can only do that a few at a time
with the facilities we have here. I will send new pictures of the playing cards
as we get them.

Anyway, another great mission - it will be good to get back to the kids, I
promised them a turkey this Christmas. Give me a call when you are next around,

Charlie
