harry,

it is hard to make sense of the latest message from martin. what is the temp
bank? is it a network of part-time spies?

jamelia implied that it was her coding skills that dynamix were interested in,
so i began to wonder if jamelia was working on a recruitment tool using social
media, but that sounds a bit old-school. could she and martin have been
developing a screening algorithm for agents, trying to pick out the most
reliable ones by data mining? how would that have fitted with her real
expertise in signal/noise analysis? surely the data isn't that noisy.

i did have some luck with background on the pds syndicate. they were initially
set up to deal with a future in which quantum transmission makes it impossible
to crack ciphers using digital methods. pds stands for post-digital
surveillance, and they were an arms-length cabinet office initiative, kept
completely separate from the other intelligence agencies. i think the plan was
total deniability on all sides, and it was structured to prevent inter-agency
rivalry. the syndicate had prime-ministerial sign-off, but after that there is
no paper trail, and there has been no news of any progress. insiders think the
syndicate was closed down in january after rumours of unauthorised
surveillance, but given that bulk collection in the uk is authorised, it is
hard to imagine what they were up to. i know that several of the people who
launched pds left the civil service in february, and two now have board
positions at citadelle. to the best of my knowledge, none of the seniors had
direct contact with jamelia or martin, but i suppose it is possible that
citadelle was just the vehicle for pds to keep an eye on the two of them.
i still don't know why they were regarded as special, though maybe trinity
has something for us.

she sent the following message, hidden in an image file in instagram. a sort
of wish-you-were-here thing, so i am guessing that she feels the need to be
fairly discrete. she has also increased the security level of her comms, but
unfortunately due to a mix-up with housekeeping, we weren't able to set up a
secure channel for key exchange before trinity left to join the dynamix team.
fortunately, she is good at improvising, and she has taken a lead from martin
and used a column transposition cipher. that also explains the steganography.
trinity knows that the opposition will find it reasonably straightforward to
crack if they spot it. a word of warning: trinity's cipher is tougher to crack
than martin's, and i had to hunt a little bit for the crib, but maybe you will
find it more easily, knowing all this. at least she didn't resort to martin's
reversing trick, so maybe we should consider ourselves lucky. i don't want to
push our luck too far, and i don't want to expose trinity to more risk than
necessary. when you reply, i suggest we follow trinity's advice and use a
vigenere cipher. a keyword of length three should be adequate.

best,
charlie
