Rescuing Anna from the hideout on Cedar Island was straightforward, though the timing was important. We had arranged for Tallmadge/Woodhull to be arrested as he entered the bank for the last time. The vault was the perfect location, with a sense of poetic justice about it as well as being operationally ideal. He had broken a cardinal rule in not having a back way out, but then, no vault ever does.
As we entered the lobby to arrest him, the lamplighters began the raid on the house on Cedar Island. They freed Anna and took her to hospital for checks, then brought her to Langley for a debrief. She seemed shaken, but in good health, and after a while was ready to talk.
We started with Benjamin. Initially his story was that Anna was running an intelligence smuggling operation from the bank and that he was trying to unravel it when he was caught. He seemed to be relying on the hope that we had been unable to intercept or crack his recent messages, but even when he realised that this was a mistake he stuck to the story. Interrogation one-O-one: don't improvise.
It was only when we explained what we knew about how the vault worked that he began to calculate his other options. He didn't have many, and it didn't take us long after that to convince him to cooperate. Now he has been turned over to the Agency so they can build a new operation, exploiting him as an asset as well as an employee.
Tallmadge/Woodhull had been running an illegal data brokering service out of the vault for several years before Anna got suspicious, though the name had caught her attention straight away. In her interview, she told us that her mother was a historian and had named her after Anna Strong, an agent of the Culper spy ring. Bedtime stories often featured the three Bens: Franklin, Woodhull and Tallmadge, and she says that is why she started to get curious about him.
She noticed that no-one ever carried anything into or out of the vault and discussed this with her friend Lynn who pointed out that only a few boxes were ever accessed. Not long after that they spotted the pattern in the access logs. On almost every occasion, the box that was accessed had the number given by the sum of the day and month in the date. We had spotted it too, but we are trained to notice things like that, and it was impressive that they worked it out.
Together they constructed a theory that the vault concealed a code leading to the Culper treasure, a hoard of coins hidden by the original Tallmadge during the Revolution and used to pay off traitors in the British army. It was fanciful, but made sense given that Anna's head was full of the myth and legend of the Culper ring. Her story is that she staged the vault break in as an excuse to bring in Jodie to help her find and break the code and to beat Tallmadge to the gold.
It was a good effort, but somehow a story about buried treasure didn't quite ring true and unfortunately for Anna, Tallmadge had already turned and betrayed her. The true story is in the report attached.
