Dear friends,

It is with some shame that I now realise how foolish I have been. The
significance of the strange laboratory at Todgers should have been
obvious. Our presumption that the recovery of our plans terminated that
most unpleasant incident will, I fear, haunt us in the days and weeks
ahead. But allow me to explain: At a recent meeting of the Royal Society
a colleague returning from France outlined to me the work of M. Daguerre
on the fixing of images upon glass plates. His process, similar in spirit
to that employed by our own Mr. Talbot, is with, imminent support from
his own government, close to commercial success. The description of the
process, in as much as it is known outside a close circle, involves the
very compounds discovered in the boarding house. Given the French interest
in our designs and their expertise in the photographic arts, it would be
too much to assume this a coincidence I fear that already the copied
designs are in foreign hands.

On a more optimistic note, I have made a most remarkable mathematical
discovery. It will allow us to develop a new cipher which does not require
the secret distribution of encryption keys. Rather the converse: one may
publish the encryption key freely, keeping secret only the key to
deciphering. I call this new method 'the remarkably secure artifice cipher."
Messages are first encoded as numbers using some agreed mechanism. These
encoded messages are then enciphered by exponentiating them to the seventh
power modulo the product of two prime numbers. Using the remarkable results
of Fermat, one may decipher the messages by another exponentiation. However,
without knowledge of the two primes, the exponent is extremely difficult
to determine. Given the difficulty of factorising the large integer, one
may publish the product, secure in the knowledge that the primes themselves
are concealed, though it must be said that given the resources, the problem
of factorisation itself may yield to the powers of the analytic engine, were
it ever to be built. By way of illustration of the security of this method,
you may wish to see if you can find the two prime factors of 31669241693611.

We have now used this Playfair cipher twice, and I was minded to suggest
that we should perhaps change to another method, but all this reflection
on numerical factors brings to mind a further natural variation of our
current cipher. Perhaps you might respond using it?

Yours as ever, B
