Meg,

I spent a couple of days over at the Pentagon briefing the staff and trying
to gauge the mood there. You are right, the hawks are getting pretty restless
and have more or less decided already that the Soviets are to blame for recent
events on the Apollo programme. Some of the generals don't need much of an
excuse to turn up the heat, but you don't get four stars without understanding
the need for political support, and there has been a concerted whispering
campaign to convince the president to take a strong line.

The most strident are calling for a large build-up of forces along the border
with East Germany as a show of strength, arguing that the attack on the space
programme must have been authorised by the Politburo. That makes no sense to
me. First, the Russians are more likely to try to win the propaganda war than
to risk conflict. And second, the sabotage, if that is what it is, isn't
sophisticated enough for a KGB operation. But it is hard to convince the
generals that that is true.

Some of the more cautious planners, mostly those who actually fought in the
last war, have managed to block the build-up, proposing a new tranche of war
games instead. Mobilising that way is still a provocation, but is less likely
to accidentally trigger a war, especially if we notify Pavlovsky in advance.

All the same, my own time in Berlin convinced me we have to tread very softly
there, so I headed over to Langley and convinced them to suggest an
alternative: We will step up inspections at Checkpoint Charlie to make it
harder for Soviet agents to cross, and crank up the Teufelsberg listening
operation to see if that turns up anything related.

I am also going to send a couple of our best over to Baikonur to try and find
out what is going on there. The Soviets are pretty secretive about their own
space programme, and without the world's press watching we don't really have
a clear picture of their progress or their plans. Unless they are close to
putting their own men on the moon, I can't see what they have to gain with
what seems to be a fairly disorganised attempt to derail our space programme.
But I would still like to know what they are up to.

Keep a close eye on the mission planning and let me know if you hear anything
worrying. I will be back about a week before the launch.

Harry
