Of course the Fabulists were lucky that I had chosen the wrong
confidante and sensing the danger they were in. Valentine and
Proteus knew immediately how to diffuse it. They arranged for you
to be kidnapped from the trenches and smuggled back to the border
under cover of a gas attack.

I have never been able to forgive myself for the fact that my
enemies chose to attack me by attacking you, nor can I stop
thinking about all those other young men in your regiment wounded
or killed by their own side in order to stop me.

I received an official telegram telling me that your corps had
been attacked at dawn and that you were missing and presumed dead.
It was accompanied by a separate message from Valentine and Proteus
telling me that you were alive. But my joy was short lived as I read
on. They had arranged matters so that you could easily be found and
they planned to brand you as a deserter. I was already convinced of
their skills in deception and persuasion, and this threat filled me
again with fear for you.

The memory of the execution I had witnessed was still fresh in my
mind, and I could not bear the thought that you might suffer the
same fate. My only hope was to find you before they could fulfill
their threat, and I travelled that night to the front in the hope
of finding a clue to your location. Arriving at the field hospital,
I interrogated every conscious man I could find, but it was one of
the nurses, almost too tired to speak, who set me on the path to
finding you. She recalled you crashing into the tent carrying a
mortally wounded companion, and had treated you for shock and burns.
You ignored her pleas to stay, insisting that there were others who
needed your help, and staggered off into the fog, risking everything
to save your men even in that chaos.

The military police kept a close eye on troop movements, and
when I showed them my Verona credentials, they told me that men
matching the description of Valentine and Proteus had been in
the neighbourhood. Still unsure who to trust, I searched for you
alone in every abandoned building I could find, and three days
later I found you bandaged and unconscious in a farmhouse in the
woods to the south of the line. You had been badly burned by the
gas, and I think you had been drugged by my tormenters. Perhaps
they were showing a glimmer of empathy for your suffering, but it
was more likely to have been a method to prevent your escape. I
hoisted you onto my shoulders and walked fifteen miles back to
the field hospital, where I left you in the care of the nurse
Miss Brittain, and left to confront the conspirators, not yet aware
of the full depth of their treachery.
