#5
key: WRMGLYFOEQVSBNXZT+AUP#JKDIHC
plaintext:
An author who writes on such subjects as Old Furniture and Old China,
with a view to educating public taste and attempting to show why certain
objects should be regarded more lovingly than others, meets with a
volume of correspondence from collectors. Threaded through such
correspondence, extended over a long period, I find the constant demand
for a volume dealing with old clocks in a popular manner. There is no
house without its clock or clocks, and few collectors of old furniture
have excluded clocks from their hobby. I have been therefore blamed
that I did not include some more detailed treatment of clocks in my
volumes on "Old Furniture" and "Cottage and Farmhouse Furniture," my
readers very justly advancing the argument that clocks form part of
the study of domestic furniture as a whole. This may be admitted.
But in the endeavour to satisfy such a want on the part of my clients,
I plead that the subject of clockmaking is one to which years of study
must be devoted.
(from Chats on Old Clocks by Arthur Hayden)

#7
keys: CKDNPUOAWXVBIQSZYTJHMGERLF, ONCHYLBUJXSEKIDQP+ZGRAFVW#MT
plaintext:
The cuckoos are in a class by themselves for several reasons, all
of which have to do with their construction and should therefore be
understood by the watchmaker. They are bought as timepieces by but two
classes of people: those who were used to them in their former homes in
Europe and buy them for sentimental reasons; and those who admire fine
wood carvings as works of art and desire to possess a finely carved
cuckoo clock for the reasons which govern in the purchase of paintings
and statuary, bronzes, and other art objects. For this reason cuckoos
have never been a success when attempts have been made to cheapen their
production by the use of imitations of wood carving in composition
or metal. The use of cuckoos in plain cases, with springs instead of
weights, has also been attempted with the idea of thereby securing
an inclosed movement, as in ordinary clocks; but while it offers
advantages in cleanliness and protection of the movement, such clocks
have never become popular, as they have lost their character as works
of art by being enclosed in plain cases, or have become rather erratic
in rate by the substitution of springs for weights.
(from The Modern Clock by Ward L. Goodrich)
