June 6th 1833

My dear Professor Babbage,

it was delightful to meet you at Miss Somerville's soirée last night, and your thoughts on the power of
computation to reduce the element of risk in gambling have set my mind racing. The devices you described, your
Difference Engine and its younger sibling the Analytic Engine are most remarkable, and I am amazed at the
scope of your ambition.

Your comments on my mathematical skills are too kind, but I am certainly unable to resist your proposal that we
might work together on these projects.

I must however confess an ulterior motive. You will be aware, possibly more aware than I, of the legacy of my
father, Lord Byron. It appears his writings are known to many, if not all, in Society, though my Mother took much
care to conceal them from me.

You can imagine my delight upon the discovery of a cypher apparently composed by my father when close to his
death, which has come to me by way of his publisher Mr. Moore, who felt unable to include it in the volumes of
my father's complete works (to be shortly published) without a note of the cypher’s contents. Being a novice in
this field of endeavour, he asked if I might feel able to embark on its decipherment. Having read of your interest
in this discipline I must confess that I rather encouraged Miss Somerville to affect our introduction, and I most
ardently hope that you will agree to assist me in the decipherment of the Byron Enigma, as I have come to know
it.

I look forward most earnestly to your reply, in the hope that it will be favourable, and I remain your devoted
servant,

Ada Lovelace

PS. Perhaps it is indiscreet of me to mention it, but the interest shown in your devices by the cabinet minister
Lord Pennylaine seemed to be not entirely disinterested. He certainly showed a very great interest in the
possibility of using the devices in games of chance, and in that he shares my own curiosity, however I know that
he is not entirely welcome in the smarter gaming rooms (rather too many hold a promise of payment from him)
and there was something rather too eager in his manner last night.
