Harry had a grin on his face when he showed up, so I knew he had something to show me. I didn't expect it to be written on a post-it note and at first I wasn't sure what it was supposed to tell me. It was just one word and a number: Silver, sixty-eight. He was teasing me rather than testing me, but I could tell he wasn't going to explain it right away. If we didn't have other more important things to do I would have enjoyed working it out, but right then I had news of my own.
That morning, assuming that the CIA would be monitoring cell phones in the neighbourhood of Langley, I had left mine in the room safe at the hotel. It acted as a Faraday cage preventing trackers, so it also meant that Harry could not find me. I had been pretty sure he would be doing the same though, and we had already set up a rendezvous for later in the evening.
I took up a position close to the apartment block used by Tallmadge, with a clear view of the front and side doors. Of course, there was no record of someone called Tallmadge living there, but one of the names on the mailbox was Woodhull. Woodhull, was another member of the Culper Ring. It was a good choice; easy to remember but less conspicuous than Tallmadge; a sensible precaution for a safe house so close to Langley HQ.
At eight am Tallmadge/Woodhull left the apartment and drove to Langley, while I followed two to three cars behind. I had rented several vehicles from different companies, using burner identities and stashing the cars and vans at the airport; near his apartment and two blocks from his office, allowing me to switch them from time to time. I couldn't risk being spotted by him, or by the bastion of technology that guards the CIA headquarters.
Nothing happened all day, but after work Tallmadge headed up to Mclean and took a boat out to one of the many islands dotting the Potomac. I couldn't follow him there, but it seemed likely that was where I would find Anna. I took a note of the direction, set a reminder to check the maps later and headed back to the rendezvous.
While Harry still wouldn't tell me what the post-it note meant or how he knew that the communications system in the vault was recent rather than a historic artefact, he was very clear that Tallmadge could not to be trusted and that the Culpeper vault operation was, at the least, off-books. He was pretty sure that Tallmadge was a double agent, which made the whole operation more dangerous, but on the flip side that meant that Tallmadge was working without the support of the agency. It also meant that we needed to turn him in fast, before he could do any further damage.
Harry has two reasons to delay. The first is that we want to get Anna out alive; rushing in risks a gun fight and neither of us is trained for hostage rescue. We are working off-books too and don't have access to special forces, so stealth is our only weapon. The second reason is that we need to make sure we have enough evidence to take down Tallmadge. Harry's plan is to bring me back in from the cold and he wants this operation to be the cover for my absence. If we can wrap it up with hard proof of Tallmadge's treachery, then Harry can tell the BOSSes that I uncovered it myself, and that he supported an off-books operation because he didn't know how deep the conspiracy was when I uncovered it.
I am sceptical but we are desperate to close this without a casualty, so we have made a huge pot of coffee and are sitting down to thrash out a plan together. By the way, I figured out that the post-it note is a big clue to the meaning of "Silver, sixty-eight". Now I understand. Maybe you can look it up and work it out too!
