charlie,

i have found martin. he was camped out at a hacker collective in oslo,
which he must have thought was safe, but turned out to be a major error.
to avoid suspicion from the other hackers he had to spend a lot of time
online, and the NSA were watching. one of the laptops he was using had
been compromised, and an automated scan flagged the stream for analysis.
we have agents on the way to interview him, and i am hoping this will
give us enough to unravel this mystery.

in the meantime, i called in a few favours with the e-tjenesten who
followed martin to a local bank. he is carrying out all cash transactions
in an effort to stay off-grid, which is a little ironic, given the way we
found him. he is travelling under the name james, and i wondered if that
was a hint that he still has feelings for jamelia. he is using a fake
passport which was good enough to fool the bank, and i am looking forward
to examining it, as i am not sure how he would have obtained one of this
quality outside the trade. we have tied his norwegian transactions to an
account in switzerland, which i guess is no surprise. we had the usual
difficulties getting access from the swiss authorities, but things are a
lot easier there than they used to be, and with cooperation from the FIS
i gained access to a strongbox held in martin's new name. the enclosed
letter from that box promises to shed light on his role in all this, but
unfortunately it is again encrypted, and this time the cipher is a bit
stronger than the ones we have been dealing with. i could wait for the
interview with martin, but i have a feeling that the interview will go
better if i know more in advance, so i will spend a little time analysing
it in the hope of getting a break.

one thing that puzzles me: the manager at the swiss bank mentioned that the
last time he saw martin in person, he was travelling with a young woman, and
the description sounded a lot like jamelia. i didn't pick up on this at
first, because i assumed that this was prior to her death, but when i checked
the dates, it didn't tie up. they seem to have been at the bank together
three days after jamelia's death.

more later.
harry
