Dear Harry,

This is an unusual request and I know you are busy with other more important matters, but I think you might find this interesting, and there are a lot of very influential people who have a stake in the outcome of this particular investigation. I hope you can help.

The story began when workmen excavating a cellar in Montmartre found a packet of art materials under the floor. They were dated during the war and the documents they found with them all appear to be encrypted. They asked us to take a look and we managed to crack one of them. I have a feeling it might have been better if we hadn’t bothered. Anyway, we are where we are, and we are going to have to follow this through. Take a look at what we found and let me know what you think.

All the best, Phil.

“They look after me well here, but it is my gift that they treasure, not me, and if I stop working for them they will return me to Buchenwald. Each month another painting, another challenge. At first they praised my work, encouraged me to produce my own art, but as soon as they recognized my real talent the demands began. Now they have brought her to me, the most famous portrait in all history, and they demand a perfect copy. Four times I have taken brush to canvas and each time they have destroyed my work. The man from the university comes, bends over the portrait with his glass and passes judgment. The brush stroke in the hair is too coarse, the shadow is too deep, the light on the bodice is too harsh. Each time a flaw, each time their disappointment grows stronger and their frustration deepens. I am not sure how they do it, but the painting is brought to me every night and returned to its place on the gallery wall each dawn. They have taken me to see her in her home, to show me how my copy will look, hanging there in her place.

They try to hide their disappointment, but I am failing them and I know that if I fail completely then my life here is over. There is so much to say about my journey here, and I hope there will be more to say about my escape from this gentle prison, but I cannot risk them finding this letter. There is so much about me that they do not know, must never know, and so much to tell about her history too. Our stories are entwined and I must tell them together – a tale of two ghettos. If you find this letter, and if you can read it, then I am trusting you to do the right thing with the secret knowledge that it brings.

Sarah"
