Mission Briefing 8A: Surprise, surprise!

Well, that was a surprise! I found the attached letter on my doormat in a copy of the local magazine. It was clever really, there is no way to track back to how it got there and no point in wasting time or resources trying to find out. In any case, it was clear that Trinity sent it, and equally clear what she wanted. Even the cipher they have used is a message to me. It is double encrypted with the second stage using the same Polybius grid I used for my last diary entry. They are telling me that I have nowhere to hide. Once I stripped that off, I was left with a standard but tricky cipher to break. Fortunately, I learned the dark arts of frequency analysis and cribbing from Harry, so it didn't take long to crack it.
The second surprise is that I don't know what to do. Normally any unsolicited approach like this would be instantly reported to the lamplighters so they could investigate, but as Trinity points out, I had already concealed the last intercept from Harry, worried that it might damage his trust in me. It will not look good if he finds that out from them, but if I tell him then I will also have to tell him about this direct appeal to join them. I don't think that will make things any better between us.
There is something else too. The founders of the conspiracy are personal heroes of mine, and I can't bear to think that they might have been working for the dark side. If it is true, then I would rather find out for myself than leave it to others in BOSS.
I suppose I could tell all and offer to infiltrate the agency, but the history of double agents is not a happy one. It is hard to really trust someone who has worked for the opposition, even if they do it undercover. Too many have been corrupted by the compromises required and I am not sure I am cut out for that sort of work. I don't think Harry would insist, but I am certain somebody in BOSS would. The talk of the pandemic and COP will be a red flag, and someone, somewhere will be desperate to break into the conspiracy. Desperate enough to make me an offer I can't refuse.
I will have to take this further, but before I agree to meet Trinity I need to know more. The name of the Souter Point Lighthouse rings a bell, but I can't remember where I came across it. I will have to get the trainees to figure out why it might be important. Meanwhile, I have another more urgent trip to make. To Massourie.
