Harry, thanks for the copy of the Pinkerton report. I found an identical file in our archives, but it was an intercept from the telegraph and hadn't been picked up by the police, so it was not in the files I had borrowed from them.
I followed up on the bookshop lead but didn't get far, although, curiously, Alresford has been a place of interest to the intelligence service for a while. The infamous Portland spy ring used the public lavatory over the road from the local police station there as a dead drop, which seems very unlikely, but I guess that was the point. Anyway, that has nothing to do with the case we are investigating here.
I gather from the files that soon after Miss Styles received the Pinkerton report she was able to persuade the police to reopen the case. They don't seem to have been particularly diligent or keen. Harper wrote a memo chastising them for their lack of progress, perhaps to impress his friend, Rogers, but the detective in charge replied with a long list of reasons why the case was hopeless. Harper's diary shows that a planned meeting to discuss the case was cancelled soon after he received the reply. The whole thing would have been entirely forgotten by now if Maisie had not written again to the Police Chief with an extraordinary claim: the encrypted note that Dr White had found sewn into the binding of the book displayed several features that suggested it had been written on the typewriter in the Mansion itself.
Tom Harper was sceptical, as the typeface appeared to be a standard Underwood, typical of hundreds of typewriters in the State, but it was true that the letter j showed a distinctive dip and that the letter a was missing its upper serif in the note, both features seen in other documents typed on the house machine.
Harper was clearly disturbed by the discovery. His daily log noted the findings with the remarks: If the note was written by someone in the household, then does that mean that they were in league with Isles, or that they were somehow involved with him? Why did he choose that particular book?
He sent a letter to Rogers asking him if he could account for the discovery and received the attached reply. We can judge just how rattled Rogers felt by the fact that he encrypted it using a Vigenere cipher. He clearly did not want to take a chance that anyone other than Harper would read it.
